



































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































Abate thy valour in the acting it.
A bawd, a bawd, a bawd! So ho!
A beggarly account of empty boxes,
a better love to be-rhyme her; Dido, a dowdy; Cleopatra, a gypsy;
Abraham.
Above the clouds, as high as heaven itself?
Abraham.
Abraham.
Abraham.
Abraham.
Abraham, Servant to Montague.
A bump as big as a young cockerel's stone;
Accurs'd, unhappy, wretched, hateful day!
Accursed time! unfortunate old man!
A challenge, on my life.
A choking gall, and a preserving sweet. —
A churchyard; in it a Monument belonging to the
A cold and drowsy humour; for no pulse
Acquaint her here of my son Paris' love;
A crutch, a crutch! — Why call you for a sword?
ACT I
ACT II
ACT III
ACT IV
ACT V
A damned saint, an honourable villain! —
A dateless bargain to engrossing death! —
Adding to clouds more clouds with his deep sighs:
A dog of that house shall move me to stand:
A dog of the house of Montague moves me.
A dram of poison; such soon-speeding gear
[Advances.]
Adversity's sweet milk, philosophy,
A fair assembly. [Gives back the paper]: whither should they
Affection makes him false, he speaks not true:
Affliction is enanmour'd of thy parts,
Afore me, it is so very very late
A fortnight and odd days.
After the prompter, for our entrance:
Against to-morrow: my heart is wondrous light
A gentleman, nurse, that loves to hear himself talk; and
A gentleman of noble parentage,
'a? — Gentlemen, can any of you tell me where I may find the young
A gentler judgment vanish'd from his lips, —
A glooming peace this morning with it brings;
A grave? O, no, a lanthorn, slaught'red youth,
A greater power than we can contradict
A great suspicion: stay the friar too.
A hall — a hall! give room! and foot it, girls. —
A Hall in Capulet's House.
Ah ha, my mistresses! which of you all
Ah, Juliet, I already know thy grief;
Ah, Juliet, if the measure of thy joy
Ah me!
Ah me! how sweet is love itself possess'd,
Ah me! what news? why dost thou wring thy hands?
Ah, mocker! that's the dog's name. R is for the dog: no; I
Ah, poor my lord, what tongue shall smooth thy name,
Ah sir! ah sir! — Well, death's the end of all.
Ah, sirrah, this unlook'd-for sport comes well.
Ah, sirrah [to 2 Capulet], by my fay, it waxes late;
Ah, that same pale hard-hearted wench, that Rosaline,
Ah, well-a-day! he's dead, he's dead, he's dead!
Ah, where's my man? Give me some aqua vitae. —
Ah, word ill urg'd to one that is so ill! —
A jealous-hood, a jealous-hood! — Now, fellow,
Alack, alack, is it not like that I,
Alack, alack, that heaven should practise stratagems
Alack, alack! what blood is this which stains
Alack the day! — he's gone, he's kill'd, he's dead!
Alack the day, she's dead, she's dead, she's dead!
Alack, there lies more peril in thine eye
a lantern, crow, and spade.]
Alas, alas! — Help, help! My lady's dead! —
Alas, my liege, my wife is dead to-night;
Alas, poor Romeo, he is already dead! stabbed with a white
Alas, that love, so gentle in his view,
Alas that love, whose view is muffled still,
a letter?
A lightning before death: O, how may I
 Alike bewitched by the charm of looks;
Alive in triumph! and Mercutio slain!
Alla stoccata carries it away. [Draws.]
All forsworn, all naught, all dissemblers. —
All in gore-blood; — I swounded at the sight.
All night for lesser cause, and ne'er been sick.
All our whole city is much bound to him.
All slain, all dead: 'Romeo is banished,' —
All things that we ordained festival
All this I know; and to the marriage
All this is comfort; wherefore weep I, then?
Alone, in company, still my care hath been
A lover may bestride the gossamer
A madman's mercy bid thee run away.
A man, young lady! lady, such a man
Amen!
Amen, amen! but come what sorrow can,
Am I like such a fellow?
Am I the master here, or you? go to.
Among a sisterhood of holy nuns:
Among fresh female buds shall you this night
A most courteous exposition.
An alligator stuff'd, and other skins
An Apothecary.
An 'a speak anything against me, I'll take him down, an'a
Ancient damnation! O most wicked fiend!
And a courteous, and a kind, and a handsome;
And a good lady, and a wise and virtuous:
And all combin'd, save what thou must combine
And all my fortunes at thy foot I'll lay
And all the better is it for the maid:
And all things change them to the contrary.
And all things shall be well, I warrant thee, wife:
And all this day an unaccustom'd spirit
And all those twenty could but kill one life.
 And an old hare hoar,
And apprehend thee for a felon here.
And art thou chang'd? Pronounce this sentence then, —
And as he fell did Romeo turn and fly.
And bad'st me bury love.
And bakes the elf-locks in foul sluttish hairs,
And bear this work of heaven with patience:
And, being anger'd, puffs away from thence,
And, being thus frighted, swears a prayer or two,
And bid her hasten all the house to bed,
And bid her, mark you me, on Wednesday next, —
And bid him come to take his last farewell.
And bid me stand aloof, and so I did:
And breath'd such life with kisses in my lips,
And bring in cloudy night immediately. —
And bring thee cords made like a tackled stair;
And but one word with one of us? Couple it with something; make
And, but thou love me, let them find me here.
And by-and-by my master drew on him;
and can never find what names the writing person
And cruel death hath catch'd it from my sight!
And death, not Romeo, take my maidenhead!
And death's pale flag is not advanced there. —
 And doleful dumps the mind oppress,
And do not interrupt me in my course.
And doth it give me such a sight as this?
And drink it off; and, if you had the strength
And ere this hand, by thee to Romeo's seal'd,
And fall upon the ground, as I do now,
And fearfully did menace me with death
And fear'st to die? famine is in thy cheeks,
And find delight writ there with beauty's pen;
And finding him, the searchers of the town,
And fire-ey'd fury be my conduct now! —
And flecked darkness like a drunkard reels
And flourishes his blade in spite of me.
And follow thee, my lord, throughout the world.
And for that name, which is no part of thee,
And for that offence
And from her womb children of divers kind
And from my soul too;
And gave him what becomed love I might,
And gladly shunn'd who gladly fled from me.
And go, Sir Paris; — every one prepare
And hear the sentence of your moved prince. —
And hereabouts he dwells, — which late I noted
And here he writes that he did buy a poison
And here is come to do some villanous shame
And here I stand, both to impeach and purge
And her immortal part with angels lives.
And he shall signify from time to time
And he will make the face of heaven so fine
And hide me with a dead man in his shroud;
And hire post-horses. I will hence to-night.
And hire those horses; I'll be with thee straight.
And his to me:
And hither shall he come: and he and I
And I am nothing slow to slack his haste.
And I am proof against their enmity.
And I, for winking at your discords too,
And, if thou dar'st, I'll give thee remedy.
And, if we meet, we shall not scape a brawl;
And I'll believe thee.
And I'll no longer be a Capulet.
And I'll still stay, to have thee still forget,
And, in despite, I'll cram thee with more food!
And in his needy shop a tortoise hung,
And, in his wisdom, hastes our marriage,
And in my temper soften'd valour's steel.
And, in strong proof of chastity well arm'd,
And in their triumph die; like fire and powder,
And in the taste confounds the appetite:
And in this borrow'd likeness of shrunk death
And, in this rage, with some great kinsman's bone,
And in this state she gallops night by night
and is he a man to encounter Tybalt?
And is it not, then, well served in to a sweet goose?
And it mis-sheathed in my daughter's bosom!
And, I warrant, a virtuous, — Where is your mother?
And I will do it without fear or doubt,
And I will make thee think thy swan a crow.
And I will take thy word: yet, if thou swear'st,
And joy comes well in such a needy time:
And Juliet bleeding; warm, and newly dead,
And keep her at my cell till Romeo come; —
And know their spring, their head, their true descent;
And lead you even to death: meantime forbear,
And learn me how to lose a winning match,
And leave him all; life, living, all is death's.
And let mischance be slave to patience. —
And let the nurse this night sit up with you;
And light thee on the way to Mantua:
And like her most whose merit most shall be:
And little mouse, every unworthy thing,
And made Verona's ancient citizens
And madly play with my forefathers' joints?
And make her airy tongue more hoarse than mine
And makes himself an artificial night:
And may not wear them. O, here comes my nurse,
And, Montague, come you this afternoon,
And more inconstant than the wind, who wooes
And needly will be rank'd with other griefs, —
And never from this palace of dim night
And never trouble Peter for the matter.
And none but fools do wear it; cast it off. —
And not impute this yielding to light love,
And now falls on her bed; and then starts up,
And, on my life, hath stol'n him home to bed.
and others.]
 And palm to palm is holy palmers' kiss.
And Paris too: — come, I'll dispose of thee
And pay no worship to the garish sun. —
And pity 'tis you liv'd at odds so long.
And pluck the mangled Tybalt from his shroud?
And presently took post to tell it you:
And, pretty fool, it stinted, and said 'Ay.'
And private in his chamber pens himself;
And quench the fire, the room is grown too hot. —
And reason coldly of your grievances,
And Romeo dead; and Juliet, dead before,
And sails upon the bosom of the air.
And sayest thou yet that exile is not death!
And see how he will take it at your hands.
And see how one another lends content;
And shake the yoke of inauspicious stars
And she as much in love, her means much less
And she brings news; and every tongue that speaks
And she shall scant show well that now shows best.
 And she steal love's sweet bait from fearful hooks:
And she, there dead, that Romeo's faithful wife:
And she, too desperate, would not go with me,
And she was wean'd, — I never shall forget it — ,
And shrieks like mandrakes torn out of the earth,
And since that time it is eleven years;
And slay thy lady, too, that lives in thee,
And sleeps again. This is that very Mab
And smil'st upon the stroke that murders me.
And soar with them above a common bound.
And so did I.
And so did I; well, we were born to die.
And so good Capulet, — which name I tender
And sometime comes she with a tithe-pig's tail,
and sought for in the great chamber.
And stay, good nurse, behind the abbey-wall:
And steal immortal blessing from her lips;
And steep'd in blood? — Ah, what an unkind hour
And stint thou too, I pray thee, nurse, say I.
And stole into the covert of the wood:
And strew this hungry churchyard with thy limbs:
And that bare vowel I shall poison more
And that my master slew him.
And that the lean abhorred monster keeps
And that the trunk may be discharg'd of breath
And that we have a curse in having her:
 And the continuance of their parents' rage,
And the demesnes that there adjacent lie,
And then awake as from a pleasant sleep.
And then down falls again.
And then dreams he of cutting foreign throats,
And then dreams he of smelling out a suit;
And then I hope thou wilt be satisfied.
And then in post he came from Mantua
And then I ran away to call the watch.
And then my husband, — God be with his soul!
And then to have a wretched puling fool,
And then will I be general of your woes,
And the place death, considering who thou art,
And the rank poison of the old will die.
And there an end. But what say you to Thursday?
And there die strangled ere my Romeo comes?
And therefore hath the wind-swift Cupid wings.
And therefore have I little talk'd of love;
and, therefore, if you should deal double with her, truly it were
And therefore thou mayst think my 'haviour light:
And there I am: — where is my Romeo?
And there she shall at Friar Lawrence' cell
And these, — who, often drown'd, could never die, —
And this distilled liquor drink thou off:
And this same needy man must sell it me.
And this shall free thee from this present shame,
And thou and Romeo press one heavy bier!
And thou art wedded to calamity.
And thou dismember'd with thine own defence.
And threaten'd me with death, going in the vault,
and 'tis known I am a pretty piece of flesh.
And too soon marr'd are those so early made.
And, to say truth, Verona brags of him
And, to sink in it, should you burden love;
And to't they go like lightning; for, ere I
And, touching hers, make blessed my rude hand.
And trust me, love, in my eye so do you:
And turn'd that black word death to banishment:
And turns it to exile; there art thou happy:
And 'twixt them rushes; underneath whose arm
And Tybalt calls; and then on Romeo cries,
And Tybalt's dead, that would have slain my husband:
And usest none in that true use indeed
And vice sometimes by action dignified.
And weep ye now, seeing she is advanc'd
And we mean well, in going to this mask;
And what I spake, I spake it to my face.
And what love can do, that dares love attempt;
And what obscur'd in this fair volume lies
And what to?
And where care lodges sleep will never lie;
And where the worser is predominant,
And why, my lady wisdom? hold your tongue,
And wish his mistress were that kind of fruit
And, with a martial scorn, with one hand beats
And with a silk thread plucks it back again,
And with my child my joys are buried!
And with this knife I'll help it presently.
And with wild looks, bid me devise some means
And world's exile is death, — then banished
And yet, I warrant, it had upon its brow
And yet I wish but for the thing I have;
And yet I would it were to give again.
And yet no farther than a wanton's bird;
And yet no man like he doth grieve my heart.
And yet not fall; so light is vanity.
And yet not proud: — mistress minion, you,
And yet, to my teen be it spoken, I have but four, —
 And young affection gapes to be his heir;
And yours, close fighting ere I did approach:
An envious thrust from Tybalt hit the life
an eye would spy out such a quarrel? Thy head is as full of
An honour! — were not I thine only nurse,
An hour but married, Tybalt murdered,
An if a man did need a poison now,
An if he hear thee, thou wilt anger him.
An if thou couldst, thou couldst not make him live;
An if you leave me so, you do me wrong.
An ill-beseeming semblance for a feast.
an ill thing to be offered to any gentlewoman, and very weak
An I might live to see thee married once, I have my wish.
An Officer.
 An old hare hoar,
An Old Man, Uncle to Capulet.
Anon, anon!
Anon.
An I were so apt to quarrel as thou art, any man should buy
Anon?
Anon comes one with light to ope the tomb;
Anon, good nurse! — Sweet Montague, be true.
An open Gallery to Juliet's Chamber, overlooking the
An open place adjoining Capulet's Garden.
another for tying his new shoes with an old riband? and yet thou
An she agree, within her scope of choice
Antony! and Potpan!
any man's, yet his leg excels all men's; and for a hand and a
Any man that can write may answer a letter.
An you be mine, I'll give you to my friend;
An you be not, hang, beg, starve, die i' the streets,
An you re us and fa us, you note us.
A pack of blessings lights upon thy back;
 A pair of star-cross'd lovers take their life;
A parlous knock; and it cried bitterly.
A peevish self-will'd harlotry it is.
A piteous corse, a bloody piteous corse;
A plague o' both your houses! — I am sped. —
Apothecary.
Apothecary.
Apothecary.
Apothecary.
Appear thou in the likeness of a sigh:
A precious ring, — a ring that I must use
A public Place.
A public place.
are ever thrust to the wall: therefore I will push Montague's men
Are made already mothers: by my count
are past compare: he is not the flower of courtesy, — but I'll
Are you so hot? marry,come up, I trow;
A rhyme I learn'd even now
A right fair mark, fair coz, is soonest hit.
A right good markman! — And she's fair I love.
Arise, fair sun, and kill the envious moon,
Arise; one knocks. Good Romeo, hide thyself.
Arms, take your last embrace! and, lips, O you
As daylight doth a lamp; her eyes in heaven
A Room in Capulet's House.
Are you at leisure, holy father, now;
A Room in Capulet's House.
art as well as by nature: for this drivelling love is like a
Art thou a man? thy form cries out thou art;
Art thou gone so? my lord, my love, my friend!
Art thou not Romeo, and a Montague?
Art thou so bare and full of wretchedness
A sail, a sail, a sail!
As all the world — why he's a man of wax.
as another man, if I see occasion in a good quarrel, and the law
As are behoveful for our state to-morrow:
Ascend her chamber, hence and comfort her:
As dearly as mine own, — be satisfied.
As glorious to this night, being o'er my head,
As he was coming from this churchyard side.
[Aside.] I am almost afraid to stand alone
[Aside.] I would I knew not why it should be slow'd. —
[Aside.] Shall I hear more, or shall I speak at this?
As I did sleep under this yew tree here,
As if that name,
As I hate hell, all Montagues, and thee:
As I intended, for it wrought on her
A sin-absolver, and my friend profess'd,
As in a vault, an ancient receptacle,
As I remember, this should be the house:
As is a winged messenger of heaven
As is the bud bit with an envious worm
As is the night before some festival
A sleeping potion; which so took effect
As living here, and you no use of him.
As maids call medlars when they laugh alone. —
As mine on hers, so hers is set on mine;
As much to him, else is his thanks too much.
As one dead in the bottom of a tomb:
As Paris hath. Beshrew my very heart,
As Phaeton would whip you to the west
As rich shall Romeo's by his lady's lie;
As signal that thou hear'st something approach.
As that is desperate which we would prevent.
As that of true and faithful Juliet.
As that vast shore wash'd with the furthest sea,
As with a club, dash out my desperate brains? —
A Street.
A Street.
As that the villain lives which slaughter'd him.
A Street.
As violently as hasty powder fir'd
As will disperse itself through all the veins
As yonder lady o'er her fellows shows.
As you think fit to furnish me to-morrow?
A thing like death to chide away this shame,
A thousand times good night!
A thousand times the worse, to want thy light! —
Athwart men's noses as they lie asleep:
At my poor house look to behold this night
A torch for me: let wantons, light of heart,
A troubled mind drave me to walk abroad;
At some hours in the night spirits resort; —
At the hour of nine.
At the prefixed hour of her waking
At this same ancient feast of Capulet's
At thy good heart's oppression.
At what o'clock to-morrow
A villain, that is hither come in spite,
A visard for a visard! what care I
'A was a merry man, — took up the child:
Away, be gone; the sport is at the best.
Away from light steals home my heavy son,
Away to heaven respective lenity,
Away with the join-stools, remove the court-cupboard, look
A whining mammet, in her fortune's tender,
A whispering tale in a fair lady's ear,
a word with one of you.
Ay, a thousand times. [Exit Romeo.] — Peter!
Ay, ay, a scratch, a scratch; marry, 'tis enough. —
Ay, ay, the cords.
Ay, boy, ready.
Ay, by my troth, the case may be amended.
Ay, forsooth.
Ay, If I know the letters and the language.
Ay, let the county take you in your bed;
Ay, madam, from the reach of these my hands.
Ay, marry, go, I say, and fetch him hither. —
Ay me! sad hours seem long.
Ay, mine own fortune in my misery.
Ay, nurse; what of that? both with an R.
Ay, pilgrim, lips that they must use in prayer.
Ay, sir; but she will none, she gives you thanks.
Ay, so I fear; the more is my unrest.
Ay, the heads of the maids, or their maidenheads;
Ay, those attires are best: — but, gentle nurse,
Ay, while you live, draw your neck out o' the collar.
Ay, you have been a mouse-hunt in your time;
Back, foolish tears, back to your native spring;
Balthasar.
Balthasar.
Balthasar.
Balthasar.
Balthasar.
Balthasar.
Balthasar.
Balthasar.
Balthasar.
Balthasar.
Balthasar.
Balthasar.
Balthasar, Servant to Romeo.
Banish'd the new-made bridegroom from this city;
Bear hence this body, and attend our will:
Bearing a Tartar's painted bow of lath,
beaten as addle as an egg for quarrelling. Thou hast quarrelled
[Beats down their swords.]
Beautiful tyrant! fiend angelical!
Beauty too rich for use, for earth too dear!
be brisk awhile, and the longer liver take all.
Because he married me before to Romeo?
Because it is an enemy to thee.
Because their breaths with sweetmeats tainted are:
Begot of nothing but vain fantasy;
Beg pardon of the prince, and call thee back
Beguil'd, divorced, wronged, spited, slain!
Be heap'd like mine, and that thy skill be more
Being a divine, a ghostly confessor,
Being black, puts us in mind they hide the fair;
Being but heavy, I will bear the light.
Being held a foe, he may not have access
Being holiday, the beggar's shop is shut. —
Being in night, all this is but a dream,
Being loose, unfirm, with digging up of graves, —
Being our kinsman, if we revel much:
Being purg'd, a fire sparkling in lovers' eyes;
Being spoke behind your back than to your face.
Being tasted, slays all senses with the heart.
Being the time the potion's force should cease.
Being vex'd, a sea nourish'd with lovers' tears:
Believe me, love, it was the nightingale.
Belonging to a man. O, be some other name!
bench? O, their bons, their bons!
Benedicite!
Be not her maid, since she is envious;
Be not so long to speak; I long to die,
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio.
Benvolio, Nephew to Montague, and Friend to Romeo.
Benvolio, who began this bloody fray?
Be patient, for the world is broad and wide.
Be plain, good son, and homely in thy drift;
Be quiet, or — More light, more light! — For shame!
Be rul'd by me, forget to think of her.
Be sacrific'd, some hour before his time,
Beshrew your heart for sending me about
Be shriv'd and married. Here is for thy pains.
Betroth'd, and would have married her perforce,
Bid a sick man in sadness make his will, —
Bid her devise some means to come to shrift
Black and portentous must this humour prove,
Blind is his love, and best befits the dark.
Bliss be upon you! Tell me, good my friend,
Blister'd be thy tongue
Blubbering and weeping, weeping and blubbering. —
Bondage is hoarse and may not speak aloud;
Both by myself and many other friends;
Both you and I; for Romeo is exil'd:
Boy.
Boy, this shall not excuse the injuries
Brags of his substance, not of ornament:
[Breaking open the door of the monument.]
Brief sounds determine of my weal or woe.
Bring forth the parties of suspicion.
Brother, I'll go and bring it thee.
 But a hare that is hoar
But all so soon as the all-cheering sun
But, an you will not wed, I'll pardon you:
But, as it seems, did violence on herself.
But banished to kill me; banished?
But by-and-by comes back to Romeo,
butcher of a silk button, a duellist, a duellist; a gentleman of
But chiefly to take thence from her dead finger
But come, young waverer, come go with me,
But every man betake him to his legs.
But fettle your fine joints 'gainst Thursday next
But for the sunset of my brother's son
But heaven keeps his part in eternal life.
But he, his own affections' counsellor,
But He that hath the steerage of my course
But he which bore my letter, Friar John,
But I, a maid, die maiden-widowed.
But I can give thee more:
But if thou, jealous, dost return to pry
But if you do, sir, am for you: I serve as good a man as
But I'll amerce you with so strong a fine
But I'll be hanged, sir, if he wear your livery:
But in that crystal scales let there be weigh'd
but I pray, can you read anything you see?
But I will watch you from such watching now.
But I will write again to Mantua,
But, let them measure us by what they will,
But, like a misbehav'd and sullen wench,
But, look, thou stay not till the watch be set,
But love from love, towards school with heavy looks.
But love thee better than thou canst devise
But Montague is bound as well as I,
But much of grief shows still some want of wit.
But my true love is grown to such excess,
But new struck nine.
But no more deep will I endart mine eye
But not possess'd it; and, though I am sold,
but not to the purpose, —
But now I'll tell thee joyful tidings, girl.
But now I see this one is one too much,
But now, my lord, what say you to my suit?
But O, it presses to my memory
But old folks, many feign as they were dead;
But one, poor one, one poor and loving child,
But one thing to rejoice and solace in,
But passion lends them power, time means, to meet,
But purgatory, torture, hell itself.
But Romeo may not; he is banished, —
But Romeo may not. — More validity,
But Romeo's name speaks heavenly eloquence. —
But sadly tell me who.
But saying o'er what I have said before:
But send him back.
But she's best married that dies married young.
But, soft! what day is this?
But soft! what light through yonder window breaks?
But thankful even for hate that is meant love.
But that a joy past joy calls out on me,
But that thou overheard'st, ere I was 'ware,
But then a noise did scare me from the tomb;
But the true ground of all these piteous woes
But thou art not quickly moved to strike.
But thou shalt hear it: whistle then to me,
But thou slewest Tybalt; there art thou happy too:
but 'tis enough, 'twill serve: ask for me to-morrow, and you
But 'tis no wit to go.
But to be frank and give it thee again.
But to himself so secret and so close,
But to his foe suppos'd he must complain,
But to rejoice in splendour of my own.
But to the earth some special good doth give;
But trust me, gentleman, I'll prove more true
But when I came, — some minute ere the time
But wherefore, villain, didst thou kill my cousin?
But where unbruised youth with unstuff'd brain
But with a rear-ward following Tybalt's death,
But woo her, gentle Paris, get her heart,
But you shall bear the burden soon at night.
By a name
By-and-by I come: —
By any other name would smell as sweet;
By cruel cruel thee quite overthrown! —
By doing damned hate upon thyself?
By giving liberty unto thine eyes;
By having him, making yourself no less.
By heaven, I love thee better than myself;
By heaven, I will tear thee joint by joint,
By her fine foot, straight leg, and quivering thigh,
By her high forehead and her scarlet lip,
By holy Lawrence to fall prostrate here,
By holy marriage: when, and where, and how
By leaving earth? — comfort me, counsel me. —
By love, that first did prompt me to enquire;
By my head, here come the Capulets.
By my heel, I care not.
By my troth, it is well said; — for himself to mar, quoth
By one that I'll procure to come to thee,
By playing it to me with so sour a face.
By'r Lady, thirty years.
By some vile forfeit of untimely death:
By thee, old Capulet, and Montague,
By their own beauties: or, if love be blind,
by too, and suffer every knave to use me at his pleasure!
By urging me to fury: O, be gone!
By whose direction found'st thou out this place?
called, my young lady asked for, the nurse cursed
Call, good Mercutio.
Call me but love, and I'll be new baptiz'd;
Call Peter, he will show thee where they are.
Call this a lightning? — O my love! my wife!
Came he not home to-night?
Came I to take her from her kindred's vault;
Came more and more, and fought on part and part,
Came to this vault to die, and lie with Juliet. —
came you between us? I was hurt under your arm.
Can heaven be so envious?
Can I demand.
Can I go forward when my heart is here?
Canker'd with peace, to part your canker'd hate:
Can vengeance be pursu'd further than death?
Capulet, }
Capulet.
Capulet.
Capulet.
Capulet.
Capulet.
Capulet.
Capulet.
2 Capulet.
Capulet.
Capulet.
Capulet.
Capulet.
Capulet.
Capulet.
Capulet.
Capulet.
Capulet.
Capulet.
Capulet.
Capulet.
Capulet.
Capulet.
Capulet.
Capulet.
Capulet.
Capulet.
Capulet.
Capulet.
Capulet.
Capulet.
Capulet.
Capulet.
Capulet.
Capulet.
Capulet.
Capulet.
Capulet.
Capulet.
Capulet.
2 Capulet.
Capulet.
Capulet.
Capulet.
Capulet.
Capulet.
Capulet.
Capulet.
Capulet.
Capulet.
Capulets.
Care keeps his watch in every old man's eye,
Capulet's Garden.
Capulet.
Capulet's Garden.
case as mine a man may strain courtesy.
Cast by their grave beseeming ornaments,
Chequering the eastern clouds with streaks of light;
choose a man: Romeo! no, not he; rhough his face be better than
Chor.
Chorus.
1 Citizen.
1 Citizen.
Citizens, and Servants.]
Citizens of Verona; several Men and Women, relations to both
Citizens with clubs.]
Clubs, bills, and partisans! strike! beat them down!
Cold death aside, and with the other sends
come?
Come, bitter conduct, come, unsavoury guide!
Come, come, thou art as hot a Jack in thy mood as any in
Come, come with me, and we will make short work;
Come, cordial and not poison, go with me
Come, cords; come, nurse; I'll to my wedding-bed;
Come, death, and welcome! Juliet wills it so. —
Come, gentle night; — come, loving, black-brow'd night,
Come, go, good Juliet [noise within], — I dare no longer stay.
Come, go with me. — Go, sirrah, trudge about
Come, he hath hid himself among these trees,
Come hither, man. — I see that thou art poor;
Come hither, nurse. What is yond gentleman?
Come, is the bride ready to go to church?
Come, knock and enter; and no sooner in
Come Lammas-eve at night shall she be fourteen.
Come, Montague; for thou art early up,
Come, night; — come, Romeo; — come, thou day in night;
Come Pentecost as quickly as it will,
Come, shall we go?
Come, sir, your passado.
Come, stir, stir, stir! The second cock hath crow'd,
Come to redeem me? there's a fearful point!
Come to thy heart as that within my breast!
Come, vial. —
Come weep with me; past hope, past cure, past help!
Come you to make confession to this father?
Commend me to thy lady.
Compare her face with some that I shall show,
Conceit, more rich in matter than in words,
Condemned villain, I do apprehend thee;
confines of a tavern, claps me his sword upon the table, and says
Consort! what, dost thou make us minstrels? An thou make
Contempt and beggary hangs upon thy back,
Content thee, gentle coz, let him alone,
Could draw to part them was stout Tybalt slain;
Could not take truce with the unruly spleen
Could to no issue of true honour bring.
Could we but learn from whence his sorrows grow,
Could you not take some occasion without giving?
County Anselmo and his beauteous sisters; the
Courage, man; the hurt cannot be much.
courageous captain of compliments. He fights as you sing
Cry but 'Ah me!' pronounce but Love and dove;
Culling of simples; meagre were his looks,
cup draws him on the drawer, when indeed there is no need.
dares, being dared.
daughters; my fair niece Rosaline; Livia; Signior
Day, night, hour, time, tide, work, play,
Dead art thou, dead! — alack, my child is dead;
Death is my son-in-law, death is my heir;
Death lies on her like an untimely frost
Death, lie thou there, by a dead man interr'd.
Death, that hath suck'd the honey of thy breath,
Death, that hath ta'en her hence to make me wail,
Delay this marriage for a month, a week;
Deny thy father and refuse thy name;
Depart again: here, here will I remain
[Descends.]
Despis'd, distressed, hated, martyr'd, kill'd! —
Despised substance of divinest show!
Did ever dragon keep so fair a cave?
Did murder her; as that name's cursed hand
Did not attend him as we rode? I think
Either withdraw unto some private place,
[Dies.]
1 Citizen.
[Dies.]
Digressing from the valour of a man;
Direct my sail! — On, lusty gentlemen!
disgrace to them if they bear it.
Displant a town, reverse a prince's doom,
Do as thou wilt, for I have done with thee.
Do ebb and flow with tears; the bark thy body is,
Doing more murders in this loathsome world
Do lace the severing clouds in yonder east:
Do not deny to him that you love me.
Do not swear at all;
Do so, and bid my sweet prepare to chide.
Dost thou love me, I know thou wilt say Ay;
Dost thou not bring me letters from the friar?
Dost thou not laugh?
Doth couch his limbs, there golden sleep doth reign:
Doth grace for grace and love for love allow;
Doth hurry from the fatal cannon's womb.
Doth make against me, of this direful murder;
Doth much excuse the appertaining rage
Doth my name lodge? tell me, that I may sack
Doth not she think me an old murderer,
Do thou but call my resolution wise,
Do thou but close our hands with holy words,
 Doth with their death bury their parents' strife.
Doting like me, and like me banished,
Dove-feather'd raven! wolvish-ravening lamb!
Down with the Capulets! Down with the Montagues!
Do you bite your thumb at us, sir?
Do you bite your thumb at us, sir?
do you good to hear it.
Do you not see that I am out of breath?
Do you quarrel, sir?
Draw, Benvolio; beat down their weapons. —
Draw, if you be men. — Gregory, remember thy swashing blow.
Drawn with a team of little atomies
Driving back shadows over lowering hills:
Drums in his ear, at which he starts and wakes;
Dry up your tears, and stick your rosemary
Each part, depriv'd of supple government,
Earth-treading stars that make dark heaven light:
Either be gone before the watch be set,
Either thou or I, or both, must go with him.
Else, when he is found, that hour is his last.
Else would a maiden blush bepaint my cheek
Else would I tear the cave where Echo lies,
Enough of this; I pray thee hold thy peace.
[Enter Abraham and Balthasar.]
[Enter Apothecary.]
[Enter a Servant.]
[Enter, at the other end of the Churchyard, Friar Lawrence, with
[Enter Balthasar.]
[Enter Benvolio.]
[Enter Benvolio and Mercutio.]
[Enter Capulet.]
[Enter Benvolio and Romeo.]
[Enter Capulet.]
[Enter Capulet and Nurse.]
[Enter Capulet in his gown, and Lady Capulet.]
[Enter Capulet, Lady Capulet, and others.]
[Enter Capulet, Lady Capulet, and Paris.]
[Enter Capulet, Lady Capulet, Nurse, and Servants.]
[Enter Capulet, Paris, and Servant.]
[Enter Chorus.]
[Enter Citizens, &amp;c.]
[Enter Friar Lawrence.]
[Enter Friar John.]
[Enter Friar Lawrence.]
[Enter Friar Lawrence and Paris.]
[Enter Friar Lawrence and Paris, with Musicians.]
[Enter Friar Lawrence and Romeo.]
[Enter Friar Lawrence with a basket.]
[Enter Juliet above.]
[Enter Lady Capulet.]
[Enter Nurse.]
[Enter Prince, attended; Montague, Capulet, their Wives,
[Enter several of both Houses, who join the fray; then enter
[Enter Juliet.]
[Enter Juliet.]
[Enter Juliet.]
[Enter Juliet.]
[Enter Juliet.]
[Drawing his sword.]
dry-beat the rest of the eight. Will you pluck your sword out of
Dry sorrow drinks our blood. Adieu, adieu!
Either my eyesight fails, or thou look'st pale.
[Enter Capulet, &amp;c. with the Guests the Maskers.]
[Enter Lady Capulet.]
[Enter Juliet and Nurse.]
[Enter Lady Capulet.]
[Enter Montague and others.]
[Enter Lady Capulet, and Nurse.]
[Enter Juliet.]
[Enter Lady Capulet and Nurse.]
[Enter Mercutio, Benvolio, Page, and Servants.]
[Enter Nurse.]
[Enter Nurse, with cords.]
[Enter Paris, and his Page bearing flowers and a torch.]
[Enter Peter.]
[Enter Servants, with spits, logs and baskets.]
[Enter the Prince and Attendants.]
[Enter Tybalt.]
[Enter Romeo.]
[Enter Romeo.]
[Enter Romeo.]
[Enter Romeo.]
[Enter Romeo.]
[Enter Romeo.]
[Enter Nurse.]
[Enter Nurse and Peter].
[Enter Prince, with Attendants.]
[Enter Romeo.]
[Enter Romeo and Balthasar with a torch, mattock, &amp;c.]
[Enter Romeo and Juliet.]
[Enter Romeo, Mercutio, Benvolio, with five or six Maskers;
[Enter Sampson and Gregory armed with swords and bucklers.]
[Enters the monument.]
[Enter Tybalt and others.]
[Enter Watch, with the Page of Paris.]
Environed with all these hideous fears?
Ere he can spread his sweet leaves to the air,
Ere he that should be husband comes to woo.
Ere I again behold my Romeo!
ere it be out.
Ere one can say It lightens. Sweet, good night!
Ere we may think her ripe to be a bride.
Escalus, Prince of Verona.
Even now the frozen bosom of the north,
Even or odd, of all days in the year,
Even so lies she,
Evermore showering? In one little body
Evermore weeping for your cousin's death?
Every good hap to you that chances here:
Examine every married lineament,
Examine other beauties.
flirt-gills; I am none of his skains-mates. — And thou must stand
God ye good-den, fair gentlewoman.
Is it good-den?
Is your man secret? Did you ne'er hear say,
I will bite thee by the ear for that jest.
Mercutio.
Montague.
Now God in heaven bless thee! — Hark you, sir.
O, she's rich in beauty; only poor
Out upon you! what a man are you!
Pink for flower.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
[singing] lady, lady, lady.
sure, I have in my whole five: was I with you there for the
Till the prince came, who parted either part.
[Exeunt.]
[Exeunt.]
[Exeunt.]
[Exeunt.]
[Exeunt.]
[Exeunt.]
[Exeunt.]
[Exeunt.]
[Exeunt.]
[Exeunt.]
[Exeunt.]
[Exeunt.]
[Exeunt.]
[Exeunt.]
[Exeunt.]
[Exeunt.]
[Exeunt.]
[Exeunt.]
[Exeunt.]
Capulet.
Capulet.
Chorus.
Come between us, good Benvolio; my wits faint.
Come hither, cover'd with an antic face,
Come, let's away; the strangers all are gone.
come to the whole depth of my tale; and meant indeed to occupy
Cuts beauty off from all posterity.
dealing.
Did my heart love till now? forswear it, sight!
Do I live dead that live to tell it now.
[Enter Benvolio and Mercutio.]
[Enter Chorus.]
[Enter Montague and his Lady Montague.]
[Enter Nurse and Peter.]
[Enter Romeo.]
[Exeunt.]
[Exeunt all but Juliet and Nurse.]
[Exeunt Capulet and Paris].
[Exeunt Capulet, Lady Capulet, Paris, and Friar.]
[Exeunt Lady Capulet and Nurse.]
[Exeunt Juliet and Nurse.]
[Exeunt Lady Capulet and Nurse.]
[Exeunt Mercutio, and Benvolio.]
[Exeunt Montague and Lady.]
[Exit.]
[Exit.]
[Exit.]
[Exit.]
[Exit.]
[Exit.]
[Exit.]
[Exit.]
[Exit.]
[Exit.]
[Exit.]
[Exit.]
[Exit.]
[Exit.]
[Exit.]
[Exit.]
[Exit Romeo.]
[Exit second Servant.]
[Exeunt some of the Watch.]
[Exeunt Prince and Attendants; Capulet, Lady Capulet, Tybalt,
[Exit.]
[Exit.]
[Exit.]
[Exeunt others of the Watch.]
[Exeunt Tybalt with his Partizans.]
[Exit.]
[Exit Balthasar.]
[Exit below.]
[Exit first Servant.]
[Exit Friar Lawrence.]
[Exit Mercutio and Benvolio.]
[Exit Page.]
[Exit Peter.]
Fain would I dwell on form,fain, fain deny
Faith, here 'tis; Romeo
Faith, I can tell her age unto an hour.
Faith, I know not what to say.
Faith, we may put up our pipes and be gone.
[Falls on Romeo's body and dies.]
Farewell.
Farewell!
Farewell, ancient lady; farewell, —
Farewell; be trusty, and I'll quit thy pains:
Farewell: buy food and get thyself in flesh. —
Farewell; commend me to thy mistress.
Farewell, dear father.
Farewell, farewell! one kiss, and I'll descend.
Farewell! — God knows when we shall meet again.
Farewell, my coz.
Farewell, my lord. — Light to my chamber, ho! —
Farewell: thou canst not teach me to forget.
Father, what news? what is the prince's doom
Fear me not.
Feather of lead, bright smoke, cold fire, sick health!
Feeling so the loss,
Fetch me my rapier, boy: — what, dares the slave
fiddlestick; here's that shall make you dance. Zounds, consort!
Fie, fie, thou sham'st thy shape, thy love, thy wit;
Fie, fie! what, are you mad?
Fie, how my bones ache! what a jaunt have I had!
Find thou the means, and I'll find such a man.
Find written in the margent of his eyes.
Five times in that ere once in our five wits.
flies, these fashion-mongers, these pardonnez-moi's, who stand so
Flower as she was, deflowered by him.
Fly hence and leave me: — think upon these gone;
Follow me close, for I will speak to them. — Gentlemen, good-den:
foot, and a body, — though they be not to be talked on, yet they
For all this same, I'll hide me hereabout:
For beauty, starv'd with her severity,
Forbid this bandying in Verona streets. —
For blood of ours shed blood of Montague. —
For, by my soul, I'll ne'er acknowledge thee,
For, by your leaves, you shall not stay alone
For doting, not for loving, pupil mine.
For even the day before, she broke her brow:
For exile hath more terror in his look,
For fair without the fair within to hide:
For fear of that I still will stay with thee,
Forgetting any other home but this.
Forgive me, cousin! — Ah, dear Juliet,
For, hark you, Tybalt being slain so late,
For he hath still been tried a holy man: —
For here lies Juliet, and her beauty makes
For here we need it not.
For I am proverb'd with a grandsire phrase, —
For I am sure you have your hands full all
For I come hither arm'd against myself:
For I had then laid wormwood to my dug,
For I have need of many orisons
For in a minute there are many days:
For I ne'er saw true beauty till this night.
For it excels your first: or if it did not,
For it was bad enough before their spite.
For I will raise her statue in pure gold;
For Juliet's sake, for her sake, rise and stand;
For men so old as we to keep the peace.
For naught so vile that on the earth doth live
For never was a story of more woe
For nothing can be ill if she be well.
For now, these hot days, is the mad blood stirring.
For saints have hands that pilgrims' hands do touch,
For shame, bring Juliet forth; her lord is come.
For so he said he would: — I hear him near.
For still thy eyes, which I may call the sea,
For stony limits cannot hold love out:
For such a wish! he was not born to shame:
For sweet discourses in our time to come.
For that which thou hast heard me speak to-night.
For then, I hope, thou wilt not keep him long
For then she could stand alone; nay, by the rood
For then thou canst not pass to Mantua;
For this alliance may so happy prove,
For this, being smelt, with that part cheers each part;
For this night's watching.
For this time, all the rest depart away: —
For though fond nature bids us all lament,
For thou wilt lie upon the wings of night
For 'tis a throne where honour may be crown'd
For 'twas your heaven she should be advanc'd:
For Venus smiles not in a house of tears.
For well you know this is a pitiful case.
For what, I pray thee?
For who is living, if those two are gone?
For whom, and not for Tybalt, Juliet pin'd.
For whose dear sake thou wast but lately dead;
For you and I are past our dancing days;
For your broken shin.
found him than he was when you sought him: I am the youngest of
French slop. You gave us the counterfeit fairly last night.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar.
Friar John.
Friar John.
Friar John.
Friar John.
Friar John, of the same Order.
Friar Lawrence.
Friar Lawrence.
Friar Lawrence.
Friar Lawrence, a Franciscan.
Friar Lawrence's Cell.
Friar Lawrence.
Friar Lawrence's Cell.
Friar Lawrence's cell.
Friar Lawrence's Cell.
Friar Lawrence's Cell.
From ancient grudge break to new mutiny,
From forth day's path and Titan's fiery wheels:
From forth the fatal loins of these two foes
From love's weak childish bow she lives unharm'd.
From off the battlements of yonder tower;
from the wall and thrust his maids to the wall.
From this world-wearied flesh. — Eyes, look your last!
Full half an hour.
full of woe': O, play me some merry dump to comfort me.
Full soon the canker death eats up that plant.
Gallop apace, you fiery-footed steeds,
Garden.
Gentlemen, for shame! forbear this outrage! —
Gentle Mercutio, put thy rapier up.
Get me an iron crow and bring it straight
Get thee to bed, and rest; for thou hast need.
Get you to bed; faith, you'll be sick to-morrow
Give me a case to put my visage in: [Putting on a mask.]
Give me a torch, — I am not for this ambling;
Give me, give me! O, tell not me of fear!
Give me my Romeo; and, when he shall die,
Give me my sin again.
Give me some present counsel; or, behold,
Give me that mattock and the wrenching iron.
Give me the letter, — I will look on it. —
Give me the light; upon thy life I charge thee,
Give me those flowers. Do as I bid thee, go.
Give me thy hand; 'tis late; farewell; good night.
Give me thy torch, boy: hence, and stand aloof; —
Go ask his name: if he be married,
Go before, nurse: commend me to thy lady;
Go, begone. —
God forbid! — where's this girl? — what, Juliet!
God gi' go-den. — I pray, sir, can you read?
God in heaven bless her! —
God join'd my heart and Romeo's, thou our hands;
God pardon him! I do, with all my heart;
God pardon sin! wast thou with Rosaline?
God save the mark! — here on his manly breast.
God's bread! it makes me mad:
'God send me no need of thee!' and by the operation of the second
God shield I should disturb devotion! —
God ye good morrow, gentlemen.
Go, get thee hence, for I will not away. —
Go, get thee to thy love, as was decreed,
Go, girl, seek happy nights to happy days.
Go hence; good night! and here stands all your state:
Go hence, to have more talk of these sad things;
Go; I'll to dinner; hie you to the cell.
Go in; and tell my lady I am gone,
[Going.]
Going to find a barefoot brother out,
gold for sounding: —
Go, nurse, go with her. — We'll to church to-morrow.
Good-even to my ghostly confessor.
Good father, I beseech you on my knees,
Good gentle youth, tempt not a desperate man;
Good heart, and i' faith I will tell her as much: Lord,
Good heart, at what?
Good king of cats, nothing but one of your nine lives; that I
Good morrow, cousin.
Good morrow, father!
Good morrow to you both. What counterfeit did I give you?
Good night.
Good night:
Good night, good night! as sweet repose and rest
Good night, good night! parting is such sweet sorrow
Good Peter, to hide her face; for her fan's the fairer face.
Good pilgrim, you do wrong your hand too much,
Good prudence; smatter with your gossips, go.
goose?
goose, proves thee far and wide a broad goose.
Gorg'd with the dearest morsel of the earth,
Go, some of you, whoe'er you find attach.
Go, tell the prince; — run to the Capulets, —
Go then; for 'tis in vain
Go thither; and, with unattainted eye,
Go thou to Juliet, help to deck up her;
Go to, go to!
Go to; I say you shall.
Go, waken Juliet; go and trim her up;
Go with me to the vault.
Go, you cot-quean, go,
Go you to Juliet, ere you go to bed,
grandsire, that we should be thus afflicted with these strange
Graze where you will, you shall not house with me:
great natural, that runs lolling up and down to hide his bauble
Green earthen pots, bladders, and musty seeds,
Gregory.
Gregory.
Gregory.
Gregory.
Gregory.
Gregory.
Gregory.
Gregory.
Gregory.
Gregory.
Gregory.
Gregory.
Gregory.
Gregory.
Gregory, o' my word, we'll not carry coals.
Gregory, Servant to Capulet.
Grief of my son's exile hath stopp'd her breath:
Griefs of mine own lie heavy in my breast;
Groan! why, no;
Ha, banishment? be merciful, say death;
Had I it written, I would tear the word.
Had part in this fair maid; now heaven hath all,
Had she affections and warm youthful blood,
Hadst thou no poison mix'd, no sharp-ground knife,
Ha! let me see her: — out alas! she's cold;
Hall in Capulet's House.
Hall in Capulet's House.
hands, and they unwash'd too, 'tis a foul thing.
Hang him, Jack! — Come, we'll in here; tarry for the
Hang thee, young baggage! disobedient wretch!
Haply some poison yet doth hang on them,
Happily met, my lady and my wife!
Happiness courts thee in her best array;
Hark, how they knock! — Who's there? — Romeo, arise;
Hark ye, your Romeo will be here at night:
Hast thou met with him? Send thy man away.
Hast thou no letters to me from the friar?
Hast thou slain Tybalt? wilt thou slay thyself?
hast. Thou wilt quarrel with a man for cracking nuts, having no
Hath been my kinsman. — O sweet Juliet,
Hath death lain with thy bride: — there she lies,
Hath had no notice of these accidents;
Hath had no power yet upon thy beauty:
hath here writ. I must to the learned: — in good time!
Hath not so green, so quick, so fair an eye
Hath Romeo slain himself? say thou but I,
Hath sent a letter to his father's house.
Hath slain ten thousand Tybalts. Tybalt's death
Hath sorted out a sudden day of joy
Hath thwarted our intents: — come, come away!
Hath wash'd thy sallow cheeks for Rosaline!
Have at thee, coward!
Have I thought long to see this morning's face,
Have lost a brace of kinsmen: — all are punish'd.
Have my old feet stumbled at graves! — Who's there?
Have not saints lips, and holy palmers too?
Have they been merry! which their keepers call
Have thrice disturb'd the quiet of our streets;
Have you deliver'd to her our decree?
Have you got leave to go to shrift to-day?
Have you importun'd him by any means?
Having displeas'd my father, to Lawrence' cell,
Having some business, do entreat her eyes
Hear me with patience but to speak a word.
He bears him like a portly gentleman;
He came with flowers to strew his lady's grave;
[He climbs the wall and leaps down within it.]
He heareth not, he stirreth not, he moveth not;
He is a kinsman to the Montague,
He is wise;
He jests at scars that never felt a wound. —
Helen and Hero, hildings and harlots; Thisbe, a gray eye or so,
He lent me counsel, and I lent him eyes.
He'll fright you up, i' faith. — Will it not be?
Help, help! — call help.
Help me into some house, Benvolio,
He made you for a highway to my bed;
Hence-banished is banish'd from the world,
Henceforth I never will be Romeo.
Henceforward,do your messages yourself.
Henceforward I am ever rul'd by you.
Hence from Verona art thou banished:
hence to wait; I beseech you, follow straight.
Hence will I to my ghostly father's cell,
He ran this way, and leap'd this orchard wall:
Her blood is settled, and her joints are stiff;
Her body sleeps in Capel's monument,
Her chariot is an empty hazel-nut,
Here are the beetle-brows shall blush for me.
Here comes Romeo, here comes Romeo!
Here comes the furious Tybalt back again.
Here comes the lady: — O, so light a foot
Here comes two of the house of Montagues.
Here comes your father: tell him so yourself,
Here in my house do him disparagement:
Here in the churchyard; yet I will adventure.
Here in this city visiting the sick,
Here in Verona, ladies of esteem,
Here is a friar, and slaughter'd Romeo's man,
Here is a friar, that trembles, sighs, and weeps:
Here lives a caitiff wretch would sell it him.
Here's goodly gear!
Here, sir, a ring she bid me give you, sir:
Here's much to do with hate, but more with love: —
Here's one, a friend, and one that knows you well.
Here's Romeo's man; we found him in the churchyard.
Here's such a coil! — come, what says Romeo?
Here's to my love! [Drinks.] — O true apothecary!
Here were the servants of your adversary
Her eye discourses, I will answer it. —
her into a fool's paradise, as they say, it were a very gross
Her mother is the lady of the house.
Her nurse is privy: and if ought in this
Herself pois'd with herself in either eye:
her sometimes, and tell her that Paris is the properer man; but
Her vestal livery is but sick and green,
Her waggoner, a small grey-coated gnat,
Her waggon-spokes made of long spinners' legs;
Her whip, of cricket's bone; the lash, of film;
He shall be endur'd:
He shall not make me there a joyful bride.
he shift a trencher! he scrape a trencher!
He swung about his head, and cut the winds,
He that is strucken blind cannot forget
He told me Paris should have married Juliet:
Hie to high fortune! — honest nurse, farewell.
Hie to your chamber. I'll find Romeo
Hie you, make haste, for it grows very late.
Hie you to church; I must another way,
His agile arm beats down their fatal points,
His fault concludes but what the law should end,
His help to crave and my dear hap to tell.
His looks I fear, and his intents I doubt.
his lovely nieces; Mercutio and his brother
His name is Romeo, and a Montague;
his pencil, and the painter with his nets; but I am
his pitcher by the ears? make haste, lest mine be about your ears
His son is thirty.
His son was but a ward two years ago.
Hist! Romeo, hist! — O for a falconer's voice
his yard and the tailor with his last, the fisher with
Hold, daughter. I do spy a kind of hope,
'Hold, friends! friends, part!' and swifter than his tongue,
Hold; get you gone, be strong and prosperous
Hold him in safety till the prince come hither.
Holding thine ear close to the hollow ground;
Hold, take these keys and fetch more spices, nurse.
Hold, take this letter; early in the morning
Hold, then; go home, be merry, give consent
Hold, there is forty ducats: let me have
Hold thy desperate hand:
Hold, Tybalt! — good Mercutio! —
Holy Franciscan friar! brother, ho!
Holy Saint Francis! what a change is here!
Honest good fellows, ah, put up, put up;
Hood my unmann'd blood, bating in my cheeks,
houses; Maskers, Guards, Watchmen, and Attendants.
How art thou out of breath, when thou hast breath
How cam'st thou hither, tell me, and wherefore?
How canst thou try them so?
How doth my lady? Is my father well?
How fares my Juliet? that I ask again;
How if, when I am laid into the tomb,
How is't, my soul? let's talk, — it is not day.
Howlings attend it: how hast thou the heart,
How long hath he been there?
How long is't now since last yourself and I
How much salt water thrown away in waste,
How nice the quarrel was, and urg'd withal
How now! a conduit, girl? what, still in tears?
How now, how now, chop-logic! What is this?
How now, my headstrong! where have you been gadding?
How now, who calls?
How oft when men are at the point of death
How shall that faith return again to earth,
How should they, when that wise men have no eyes?
How silver-sweet sound lovers' tongues by night,
How stands your disposition to be married?
How! turn thy back and run?
How well my comfort is reviv'd by this!
How! will she none? doth she not give us thanks?
Hunting thee hence with hunt's-up to the day.
I aim'd so near when I suppos'd you lov'd.
I am aweary, give me leave awhile; —
I am content, so thou wilt have it so.
I am for you. [Drawing.]
I am hurt; —
I am no pilot; yet, wert thou as far
I am not I if there be such an I;
I am the drudge, and toil in your delight;
I am the greatest, able to do least,
I am too bold, 'tis not to me she speaks:
I am too sore enpierced with his shaft
I am too young, — I pray you pardon me:' —
I bade her come. — What, lamb! what ladybird! —
I bear no hatred, blessed man; for, lo,
I beg for justice, which thou, prince, must give;
I bring thee tidings of the prince's doom.
I brought my master news of Juliet's death;
I came to talk of. — Tell me, daughter Juliet,
I cannot bound a pitch above dull woe:
I cannot choose but ever weep the friend.
I cannot sum up sum of half my wealth.
I can tell you: but young Romeo will be older when you have
I charge thee in the prince's name obey.
I come anon. — But if thou meanest not well,
I come from Lady Juliet.
I conjure only but to raise up him.
I conjure thee by Rosaline's bright eyes,
I could not send it, — here it is again, —
I dare not, sir;
I do beseech thee, —
I do beseech you, sir, have patience:
I do bite my thumb, sir.
I do but keep the peace: put up thy sword,
I do defy thy conjurations,
I do protest I never injur'd thee;
I do remember an apothecary, —
I do remember well where I should be,
I doubt it not; and all these woes shall serve
I dreamt a dream to-night.
I dreamt my lady came and found me dead, —
I dreamt my master and another fought,
I drew to part them: in the instant came
I' faith, I am sorry that thou art not well.
If all else fail, myself have power to die.
If any of my kinsmen find thee here.
I fear it is: and yet methinks it should not,
I fear, too early: for my mind misgives
If e'er thou wast thyself, and these woes thine,
If ever you disturb our streets again,
If good, thou sham'st the music of sweet news
If he be slain, say I; or if not, no:
If I departed not, and left him there.
If I did stay to look on his intents.
If I do so, it will be of more price,
If I may trust the flattering eye of sleep,
If, in thy wisdom, thou canst give no help,
If love be blind, love cannot hit the mark.
If love be rough with you, be rough with love;
If my heart's dear love, —
If no inconstant toy nor womanish fear
If, rather than to marry County Paris
If that thy bent of love be honourable,
If they do see thee, they will murder thee.
If thou art dun, we'll draw thee from the mire
If thou art fickle, what dost thou with him
If thou art taken. Hence, be gone, away!
If thou dost love, pronounce it faithfully:
If what thou speak'st speak not of remedy.
If you be he, sir, I desire some confidence with you.
I gave thee mine before thou didst request it;
I have.
I have a faint cold fear thrills through my veins
I have a head, sir, that will find out logs
I have an interest in your hate's proceeding,
I have been feasting with mine enemy;
I have forgot that name, and that name's woe.
I have forgot why I did call thee back.
I have it, and soundly too. — Your houses!
I have more care to stay than will to go. —
I have night's cloak to hide me from their sight;
I have no joy of this contract to-night;
I have remember'd me, thou's hear our counsel.
I hear some noise. — Lady, come from that nest
I hear some noise within: dear love, adieu! —
I hear thou must, and nothing may prorogue it,
I know not.
I know not how to tell thee who I am:
I know not, sir.
I'll be a candle-holder and look on, —
I'll bury thee in a triumphant grave; —
I'll call them back again to comfort me; —
I'll find those that shall. Scurvy knave! I am none of his
I'll frown, and be perverse, and say thee nay,
I'll give thee armour to keep off that word;
I'll go along, no such sight to be shown,
I'll go and chat with Paris: — hie, make haste,
I'll have this knot knit up to-morrow morning.
I'll know his grievance or be much denied.
I'll lay fourteen of my teeth, —
I'll look to like, if looking liking move:
I'll make you quiet. What! — cheerly, my hearts.
I'll not endure him.
I'll not to bed to-night; — let me alone;
I'll pay that doctrine, or else die in debt.
I'll play the housewife for this once. — What, ho! —
I'll say yon gray is not the morning's eye,
I'll swear hath corns; am I come near you now?
I'll tell thee as we pass; but this I pray,
I'll tell thee ere thou ask it me again.
I'll to him; he is hid at Lawrence' cell.
I'll to my rest.
I'll to the friar to know his remedy;
I'll warrant you, when I say so, she looks as pale as any clout
I married them; and their stol'n marriage day
I mean, an we be in choler we'll draw.
I mean, sir, in delay
I, measuring his affections by my own, —
I met the youthful lord at Lawrence' cell;
Immediately we do exile him hence:
Immoderately she weeps for Tybalt's death,
immortal passado! the punto reverso! the hay. —
I must be gone and live, or stay and die.
I must hear from thee every day i' the hour,
I must indeed; and therefore came I hither. —
I must needs wake you. — lady! lady! lady! —
I must up-fill this osier cage of ours
in a hole.
In all her best array bear her to church;
In all respects by me; nay more, I doubt it not. —
In bed asleep, while they do dream things true.
In carrion flies than Romeo: they may seize
In dear employment: therefore hence, be gone: —
Indeed I never shall be satisfied
Indeed I should have ask'd you that before.
I needs must wake her. — Madam, madam, madam! —
I neither know it nor can learn of him.
I never should forget it; 'Wilt thou not, Jule?' quoth he;
 In fair Verona, where we lay our scene,
In faith, I will. — Let me peruse this face: —
In half an hour she promis'd to return.
Inherit at my house; hear all, all see,
In lasting labour of his pilgrimage!
in: Laura, to his lady, was but a kitchen wench, — marry, she had
In love?
In man as well as herbs, — grace and rude will;
In mortal paradise of such sweet flesh? —
In my behalf; my reputation stain'd
In one respect I'll thy assistant be;
In penalty alike; and 'tis not hard, I think,
In plants, herbs, stones, and their true qualities:
In sadness, cousin, I do love a woman.
In shape no bigger than an agate-stone
In such a gorgeous palace!
In tatter'd weeds, with overwhelming brows,
In that dim monument where Tybalt lies.
In that word's death; no words can that woe sound. —
In thee at once; which thou at once wouldst lose.
In the mean time, against thou shalt awake,
in the pantry, and everything in extremity. I must
In these confusions. Heaven and yourself
in the versal world. Doth not rosemary and Romeo begin both with
In this resolve: I'll send a friar with speed
In this so sudden business.
In thy best robes, uncover'd, on the bier,
In truth, fair Montague, I am too fond;
I nurs'd her daughter that you talk'd withal;
In what I further shall intend to do,
In what vile part of this anatomy
I pay thy poverty, and not thy will.
I pray, come and crush a cup of wine. Rest you merry!
I pray thee chide not: she whom I love now
I pray thee, good Mercutio, let's retire:
I pray thee, leave me to myself to-night;
I pray you, tell my lord and father, madam,
I promise you, but for your company,
iron wit, and put up my iron dagger. — Answer me like men:
I saw her laid low in her kindred's vault,
I saw the wound, I saw it with mine eyes, —
I say 'silver sound' because musicians sound for silver.
Is banished; and all the world to nothing
Is but a little way above our heads,
Is crimson in thy lips and in thy cheeks,
Is death mis-term'd: calling death banishment,
Is death to any he that utters them.
I sell thee poison; thou hast sold me none.
Is empty on the back of Montague, —
Is fair and honest, and, in his mistress' name,
Is father, mother, Tybalt, Romeo, Juliet,
Is guilty of this lamentable chance! — The lady stirs.
I shall forget, to have thee still stand there,
Is he gone, and hath nothing?
I should have been more strange, I must confess,
Is it e'en so? why then, I thank you all;
Is it even so? then I defy you, stars! —
Is it more sin to wish me thus forsworn,
Is loathsome in his own deliciousness,
Is longer than the tale thou dost excuse.
Is love a tender thing? it is too rough,
Is my dear son with such sour company:
Is my poor heart so for a kinsman vex'd:
Is not so long as is a tedious tale.
 Is now the two hours' traffic of our stage;
Is partly to behold my lady's face,
I speak no treason.
Is Romeo slaughter'd, and is Tybalt dead?
Is Rosaline, that thou didst love so dear,
Is set a-fire by thine own ignorance,
Is she a Capulet?
Is she not down so late, or up so early?
Is she not proud? doth she not count her bles'd,
Is the day so young?
Is the law of our side if I say ay?
Is there no pity sitting in the clouds,
Is this the poultice for my aching bones?
Is three long hours, — yet she is not come.
Is thy news good or bad? answer to that;
Is to himself, — I will not say how true, —
 Is too much for a score
I stretch it out for that word broad: which added to the
I strike quickly, being moved.
 Is very good meat in Lent;
I take thee at thy word:
Italy; and as soon moved to be moody, and as soon moody to be
it a word and a blow.
It back to Tybalt, whose dexterity
It beats as it would fall in twenty pieces.
It best agrees with night. — Come, civil night,
It burneth in the Capels' monument.
It cannot countervail the exchange of joy
It did, it did; alas the day, it did!
It doth so, holy sir; and there's my master,
I tell thee what, — get thee to church o' Thursday,
I tell you, he that can lay hold of her
It fits, when such a villain is a guest:
I thank you, honest gentlemen; good-night. —
It helps not, it prevails not, — talk no more.
I think it best you married with the county.
I think you are happy in this second match,
I thought all for the best.
I thought thy disposition better temper'd.
It is an honour that I dream not of.
It is enough I may but call her mine.
It is, it is! — hie hence, be gone, away!
It is 'music with her silver sound' because musicians have no
It is my lady; O, it is my love!
It is my soul that calls upon my name:
It is my will; the which if thou respect,
It is some meteor that the sun exhales
It is supposed, the fair creature died, —
It is the east, and Juliet is the sun! —
It is the lark that sings so out of tune,
It is too rash, too unadvis'd, too sudden;
It is written that the shoemaker should meddle with
It may be so, for it is not mine own. —
It may be thought we held him carelessly,
It rains downright. —
It seems she hangs upon the cheek of night
It shall be Romeo, whom you know I hate,
It strains me past the compass of my wits:
It was the lark, the herald of the morn,
It was the nightingale, and not the lark,
It was. — What sadness lengthens Romeo's hours?
It were a grief so brief to part with thee:
I wake before the time that Romeo
I warrant, an I should live a thousand yeas,
I warrant thee, my man's as true as steel.
I was your mother much upon these years
I will, and know her mind early to-morrow;
I will be brief, for my short date of breath
I will be deaf to pleading and excuses;
I will be gone, sir, and not trouble you.
I will carry no crotchets: I'll re you, I'll fa you: do you note
I will confess to you that I love him.
I will cut off their heads.
I will follow you.
I will frown as I pass by; and let them take it as they
I will not budge for no man's pleasure, I.
I will not entertain so bad a thought. —
I will not fail: 'tis twenty years till then.
I will not marry yet; and when I do, I swear
I will omit no opportunity
I will take the wall of any man or maid of Montague's.
I will tell her, sir, — that you do protest: which, as I
I will then give it you soundly.
I will withdraw: but this intrusion shall,
I wonder at this haste; that I must wed
I would adventure for such merchandise.
I would have been a-bed an hour ago.
I would I were thy bird.
I would not for the wealth of all the town
I would not for the world they saw thee here.
I would say thou hadst suck'd wisdom from thy teat.
I would the fool were married to her grave!
I would thou hadst my bones, and I thy news:
I would thou wert so happy by thy stay
Jesu Maria, what a deal of brine
Jesu, what haste? can you not stay awhile?
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
Juliet.
[Juliet appears above at a window.]
Juliet, Daughter to Capulet.
Juliet, on Thursday early will I rouse you:
Juliet's Chamber.
Juliet's Chamber; Juliet on the bed.
Juliet, the county stays.
[Juliet wakes and stirs.]
Just in her case!
Killing that love which thou hast vow'd to cherish;
kind of behaviour, as they say: for the gentlewoman is young;
[Kisses him.]
[Kissing her.]
[Knocking within.]
[Knocking.]
[Knocking.]
Just opposite to what thou justly seem'st,
[Knocking.]
know it begins with some other letter: — and she hath the
Lady, by yonder blessed moon I swear,
Lady Capulet.
Lady Capulet.
Lady Capulet.
Lady Capulet.
Lady Capulet.
Lady Capulet.
Lady Capulet.
Lady Capulet.
Lady Capulet.
Lady Capulet.
Lady Capulet.
Lady Capulet.
Lady Capulet.
Lady Capulet.
Lady Capulet.
Lady Capulet.
Lady Capulet.
Lady Capulet.
Lady Capulet.
Lady Capulet.
Lady Capulet.
Lady Capulet.
Lady Capulet.
Lady Capulet.
Lady Capulet.
Lady Capulet.
Lady Capulet.
Mercutio.
Mist-like infold me from the search of eyes.
Lady Capulet.
Lady Capulet
Doth add more grief to too much of mine own.
Gregory.
Lady Capulet.
Lady Capulet.
Lady Capulet.
Lady Capulet.
Lady Capulet.
Lady Capulet.
Lady Capulet.
Lady Capulet.
Lady Capulet.
Lady Capulet.
Lady Montague, Wife to Montague.
Lady Capulet.
Lady Capulet.
Lady Capulet.
Lady Capulet.
Lady Capulet.
Lady Capulet
Lady Capulet, Wife to Capulet.
Lady Montague.
Lady Montague.
lady widow of Vitruvio; Signior Placentio and
[Laying down her dagger.]
[Laying Paris in the monument.]
Leap to these arms, untalk'd of and unseen. —
Leave me, and do the thing I bid thee do.
Lest in this marriage he should be dishonour'd,
Lest that thy love prove likewise variable.
Let me be satisfied, is't good or bad?
Let me be ta'en, let me be put to death;
Let me dispute with thee of thy estate.
Let me stand here till thou remember it.
Let not thy nurse lie with thee in thy chamber:
Let's see for means; — O mischief, thou art swift
Let them affright thee. — I beseech thee, youth,
Let two more summers wither in their pride
Let us take the law of our sides; let them begin.
lick their fingers.
Lies festering in his shroud; where, as they say,
Lies my consent and fair according voice.
Life and these lips have long been separated:
Lifts me above the ground with cheerful thoughts.
Like a poor prisoner in his twisted gyves,
Like a rich jewel in an Ethiop's ear;
Like damned guilty deeds to sinners' minds:
Like death, when he shuts up the day of life;
Like powder in a skilless soldier's flask,
Like softest music to attending ears!
list.
Live, and be prosperous: and farewell, good fellow.
Live here in heaven, and may look on her;
lively Helena.'
Lo, here upon thy cheek the stain doth sit
Look, and thou shalt see.
Look, look! O heavy day!
Look, sir, here comes the lady toward my cell.
Look to the bak'd meats, good Angelica;
Look to't, think on't, I do not use to jest.
Look you, she lov'd her kinsman Tybalt dearly,
Lord, how my head aches! what a head have I!
Lord, she will be a joyful woman.
Love give me strength! and strength shall help afford.
Love goes toward love as schoolboys from their books;
Love is a smoke rais'd with the fume of sighs;
Lovers can see to do their amorous rites
Madam!
Madam, an hour before the worshipp'd sun
Madam, good night: commend me to your daughter.
Madam, I am here. What is your will?
Madam, I am not well.
Madam, if you could find out but a man
Madam, in happy time, what day is that?
Madam, the guests are come, supper served up, you
Madam, your mother craves a word with you.
Made by the joiner squirrel or old grub,
 Maintains such falsehood, then turn tears to fires;
Make haste, I say.
Make haste, make haste. [Exit 1 Servant.]
Make haste; the bridegroom he is come already:
Makes my flesh tremble in their different greeting.
Making them women of good carriage:
man! — a very good whore!' — Why, is not this a lamentable thing,
man that hath a hair more or a hair less in his beard than thou
man to bow in the hams.
Mantua. A Street.
Many a morning hath he there been seen,
Many for many virtues excellent,
Marry, and amen, how sound is she asleep!
Marry, bachelor,
Marry, farewell! — I pray you, sir, what saucy merchant was
Marry, go before to field, he'll be your follower;
Marry, I will; and this is wisely done.
Marry, my child, early next Thursday morn
Marry, sir, because silver hath a sweet sound.
Marry, sir, 'tis an ill cook that cannot lick his own fingers:
Marry, that, I think, be young Petruchio.
Marry, that marry is the very theme
Mass, and well said; a merry whoreson, ha!
May be put from her by society:
May do much danger. Friar John, go hence;
May not one speak?
May prove a beauteous flower when next we meet.
May stand in number, though in reckoning none.
me?
Meaning, to court'sy.
Meaning to keep her closely at my cell
mean to make bold withal, and, as you shall use me hereafter,
Men's eyes were made to look, and let them gaze;
me occasion.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio.
Mercutio, Kinsman to the Prince, and Friend to Romeo.
Mercutio's kinsman, noble County Paris! —
Mercutio, thou consortest with Romeo, —
Mercy but murders, pardoning those that kill.
Me they shall feel while I am able to stand:
Methinks I see thee, now thou art below,
minim rest, one, two, and the third in your bosom: the very
minstrel.
minstrels of us, look to hear nothing but discords: here's my
Miscarried by my fault, let my old life
Mis-shapen chaos of well-seeming forms!
Mis-shapen in the conduct of them both,
Mistress! — what, mistress! — Juliet! — fast, I warrant her, she: —
Monday! ha, ha! Well, Wednesday is too soon,
Monday, my lord.
Montague.
Montague.
Montague.
Montague.
Montague.
Montague.
Montague.
Montague.
Montague.
Montague,}Heads of two Houses at variance with each other.
More fierce and more inexorable far
More honourable state, more courtship lives
More light and light, — more dark and dark our woes!
More light, you knaves; and turn the tables up,
More than prince of cats, I can tell you. O, he's the
More torches here! — Come on then, let's to bed.
Most detestable death, by thee beguil'd,
Most lamentable day, most woeful day
Most miserable hour that e'er time saw
mourners, and stay dinner.
mouse, a cat, to scratch a man to death! a braggart, a rogue, a
moved.
Move them no more by crossing their high will.
Much more than death; do not say banishment.
much on the new form that they cannot sit at ease on the old
Murder'd her kinsman. — O, tell me, friar, tell me,
1 Musician.
1 Musician.
3 Musician.
1 Musician.
2 Musician.
2 Musician.
1 Musician.
1 Musician.
1 Musician.
2 Musician.
1 Musician.
1 Musician.
1 Musician.
1 Musician.
Musicians, O, musicians, 'Heart's ease,' 'Heart's ease':
[Musicians waiting. Enter Servants.]
[Music plays, and they dance.]
[Music within.]
Must be my convoy in the secret night.
Must climb a bird's nest soon when it is dark:
My back o' t' other side, — O, my back, my back! —
My blood for your rude brawls doth lie a-bleeding;
My bosom's lord sits lightly in his throne;
My bounty is as boundless as the sea,
My child is yet a stranger in the world,
My conceal'd lady to our cancell'd love?
My daughter he hath wedded: I will die.
My dear?
My dear-lov'd cousin, and my dearer lord? —
My dismal scene I needs must act alone. —
My dreams presage some joyful news at hand;
My ears have yet not drunk a hundred words
My fan, Peter.
My father Capulet will have it so;
My fingers itch. — Wife, we scarce thought us bles'd
My grave is like to be my wedding-bed.
My house and welcome on their pleasure stay.
My husband is on earth, my faith in heaven;
My husband lives, that Tybalt would have slain;
My intercession likewise steads my foe.
My leisure serves me, pensive daughter, now. —
My life were better ended by their hate
My lips, two blushing pilgrims, ready stand
My lord and you were then at Mantua:
My lord, I'll tell my lady you will come.
My lord, I would that Thursday were to-morrow.
My lord, we must entreat the time alone.
My love as deep; the more I give to thee,
My master knows not but I am gone hence;
My master's.
My naked weapon is out: quarrel! I will back thee.
My name, dear saint, is hateful to myself,
My noble uncle, do you know the cause?
My only love sprung from my only hate!
My poverty, but not my will consents.
Myself condemned and myself excus'd.
My sword, I say! — Old Montague is come,
My true-love passion: therefore pardon me;
My very friend, hath got his mortal hurt
My will to her consent is but a part;
My words would bandy her to my sweet love,
narrow to an ell broad!
Nay, an there were two such, we should have none shortly, for
Nay, as they dare. I will bite my thumb at them; which is
Nay, come, I pray thee speak; — good, good nurse, speak.
Nay, gentlemen, prepare not to be gone;
Nay, gentle Romeo, we must have you dance.
Nay, good goose, bite not.
Nay, he's a flower, in faith, a very flower.
Nay, he will answer the letter's master, how he
Nay, I am the very pink of courtesy.
Nay, I do bear a brain: — but, as I said,
Nay, if thy wits run the wild-goose chase, I have done; for
Nay, I'll conjure too. —
Nay, sit, nay, sit, good cousin Capulet;
Nay, that's not so.
Need and oppression starveth in thine eyes,
Ne'er saw her match since first the world begun.
Neither, fair saint, if either thee dislike.
Never was seen so black a day as this:
News from Verona! — How now, Balthasar?
new tuners of accents! — 'By Jesu, a very good blade! — a very tall
Nightly shall be to strew thy grave and weep.
Nightly she sings on yond pomegranate tree:
No faith, no honesty in men; all perjur'd,
No.
Night's candles are burnt out, and jocund day
No.
No better.
No better term than this, — Thou art a villain.
No, coz, I rather weep.
No, for then we should be colliers.
No hare, sir; unless a hare, sir, in a lenten pie, that is
[Noise within.]
No less! nay, bigger; women grow by men
No, madam; we have cull'd such necessaries
No, marry; I fear thee!
No matter: get thee gone,
No money, on my faith; but the gleek, — I will give you the
No, my good lord.
None but for some, and yet all different.
Non, ere the sun advance his burning eye,
No nightingale: look, love, what envious streaks
No, no: but all this did I know before.
No, not a whit: what! I have watch'd ere now
No, No! — this shall forbid it: — lie thou there. —
No, not till Thursday; there is time enough.
Nor arm, nor face, nor any other part
Nor aught so good but, strain'd from that fair use,
Nor bide th' encounter of assailing eyes,
Nor get a messenger to bring it thee,
Nor no without-book prologue, faintly spoke
Nor ope her lap to saint-seducing gold:
Nor tears nor prayers shall purchase out abuses,
Nor that is not the lark whose notes do beat
Nor what is mine shall never do thee good:
No, sir, I do not bite my thumb at you, sir; but I bite my
No sudden mean of death, though ne'er so mean,
Not a dump we: 'tis no time to play now.
Not body's death, but body's banishment.
Not half so big as a round little worm
Not having that which, having, makes them short.
Not I, believe me: you have dancing shoes,
Not in a grave
Noting this penury, to myself I said,
No, 'tis not so deep as a well, nor so wide as a church door;
Not I; unless the breath of heartsick groans,
Not mad, but bound more than a madman is;
Not proud you have; but thankful that you have:
Not Romeo, prince; he was Mercutio's friend;
No, truly, sir; not a penny.
Not stepping o'er the bounds of modesty.
Not to his father's; I spoke with his man.
Not truly in their hearts, but in their eyes.
Not yet enjoy'd: so tedious is this day
Now, afore God, I am so vexed that every part about me
Now, afore God, this reverend holy friar,
No warmth, no breath, shall testify thou livest;
Now, by my maidenhea, — at twelve year old, —
Now by Saint Peter's Church, and Peter too,
Now, by the stock and honour of my kin,
Now comes the wanton blood up in your cheeks,
Now do you know the reason of this haste.
Now, good sweet nurse, — O Lord, why look'st thou sad?
Now I have stain'd the childhood of our joy
Now I'll tell you without asking: my master is the great
Now is the sun upon the highmost hill
Now must I to the monument alone;
Now, nurse, what news? What hast thou there? the cords
Now old desire doth in his deathbed lie,
Now Romeo is belov'd, and loves again,
Now seeming sweet, convert to bitter gall.
Now, sir, her father counts it dangerous
Now, Tybalt, take the 'villain' back again
now upon the prick of noon.
Now, when the bridegroom in the morning comes
Now will he sit under a medlar tree,
Nurse?
Nurse!
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
Nurse.
[Nurse calls within.]
Nurse, commend me to thy lady and mistress. I protest unto
Nurse to Juliet.
Nurse! — What should she do here?
Nurse, where's my daughter? call her forth to me.
Nurse! — wife! — what, ho! — what, nurse, I say!
Nurse, will you go with me into my closet,
O, an you will have me live, play 'Heart's ease.'
O anything, of nothing first create!
Obey, and go with me; for thou must die.
O, bid me leap, rather than marry Paris,
O blessed, blessed night! I am afeard,
O, break, my heart! — poor bankrout, break at once!
O brother Montague, give me thy hand:
O, by this count I shall be much in years
O calm, dishonourable, vile submission!
O child! O child! — my soul, and not my child! —
O churl! drink all, and left no friendly drop
O comfortable friar! where is my lord? —
O courteous Tybalt! honest gentleman!
O cousin, cousin!
O day! O day! O day! O hateful day!
O deadly sin! O rude unthankfulness!
O dear account! my life is my foe's debt.
O'er courtiers' knees, that dream on court'sies straight;
O'er-cover'd quite with dead men's rattling bones,
O'er ladies' lips, who straight on kisses dream, —
O'er lawyers' fingers, who straight dream on fees;
Of a despised life, clos'd in my breast,
Of all my buried ancestors are pack'd;
Of all the days of the year, upon that day:
Of an old tear that is not wash'd off yet:
Of a poor 'pothecary, and therewithal
Of breaches, ambuscadoes, Spanish blades,
Of dear import; and the neglecting it
Of death, contagion, and unnatural sleep:
Of disobedient opposition
Of fair demesnes, youthful, and nobly train'd,
Of healths five fathom deep; and then anon
Of her awaking, — here untimely lay
Of honourable reckoning are you both;
Of ill-shaped fishes; and about his shelves
O, find him! give this ring to my true knight,
Of limping winter treads, even such delight
Of love?
Of mortals that fall back to gaze on him
Of my child's love: I think she will be rul'd
Of my dear kinsman! — Prince, as thou art true,
Of my dug and felt it bitter, pretty fool,
Of one I danc'd withal.
O fortune, fortune! all men call thee fickle:
O friar, the damned use that word in hell;
Of some strange nature, letting it there stand
Of stout Mercutio, and then Tybalt fled:
Of that tongue's utterance, yet I know the sound;
Of this day's journey; and from nine till twelve
Of this — sir-reverence — love, wherein thou stick'st
Of twenty men, it would despatch you straight.
Of Tybalt, deaf to peace, but that he tilts
Of yonder knight?
O God! — did Romeo's hand shed Tybalt's blood?
O God! I have an ill-divining soul!
O God! — O nurse! how shall this be prevented?
O God, she comes!
O God's lady dear!
O, God ye good-en!
O heaven! — O wife, look how our daughter bleeds!
O heavy lightness! serious vanity!
O, he is even in my mistress' case, —
O, here's a wit of cheveril, that stretches from an inch
O, he's a lovely gentleman!
O holy friar, O, tell me, holy friar,
O honey nurse, what news?
O, I am fortune's fool!
O, I am slain! [Falls.] If thou be merciful,
O, I cry you mercy; you are the singer: I will say for you.
O, if I wake, shall I not be distraught,
O, I have bought the mansion of a love,
O lamentable day!
O me, O me! — my child, my only life!
O, in this love, you love your child so ill
O lamentable day!
O, let us hence; I stand on sudden haste.
O, look! methinks I see my cousin's ghost
O Lord, I could have stay'd here all the night
O lord, they fight! I will go call the watch.
O love! O life! — not life, but love in death!
O me! this sight of death is as a bell
O, mickle is the powerful grace that lies
O, much I fear some ill unlucky thing.
O, musicians, because my heart itself plays 'My heart is
O nature, what hadst thou to do in hell
Once more, on pain of death, all men depart.
[One calls within, 'Juliet.']
 One desperate grief cures with another's languish:
One fairer than my love? the all-seeing sun
One, gentlewoman, that God hath made for himself to mar.
One more, most welcome, makes my number more.
One nickname for her purblind son and heir,
One of our order, to associate me,
 One pain is lessen'd by another's anguish;
One that you love.
One who, to put thee from thy heaviness,
one would kill the other. Thou! why, thou wilt quarrel with a
One writ with me in sour misfortune's book!
On Lammas-eve at night shall she be fourteen;
on my side.
O noble prince. I can discover all
O, now be gone; more light and light it grows.
O, now I would they had chang'd voices too!
On pain of torture, from those bloody hands
On the fair daughter of rich Capulet:
On the fore-finger of an alderman,
On the white wonder of dear Juliet's hand,
On this fair corse; and, as the custom is,
On Thursday next be married to this county.
On Thursday, sir? the time is very short.
O, pardon me for bringing these ill news,
Open the tomb, lay me with Juliet.
O prince! — O husband! — O, the blood is spill'd
Or am I mad, hearing him talk of Juliet,
Or bid me go into a new-made grave,
Or by the break of day disguis'd from hence.
Or dedicate his beauty to the sun.
Or else beshrew them both.
Or else depart; here all eyes gaze on us.
Or if he do, it needs must be by stealth.
Or, if his mind be writ, give me his letter.
Or, if I live, is it not very like
Or if not so, then here I hit it right, —
Or, if sour woe delights in fellowship,
Or if thou thinkest I am too quickly won,
Or, if thou wilt not, be but sworn my love,
Or if thou wilt, swear by thy gracious self,
Or, if you do not, make the bridal bed
Or ill-beseeming beast in seeming both!
Or in my cell there would she kill herself.
Or I shall faint. — A plague o' both your houses!
Or I will drag thee on a hurdle thither.
Or manage it to part these men with me.
Or my true heart with treacherous revolt
Or never after look me in the face:
O Romeo, Romeo, brave Mercutio's dead!
O Romeo, Romeo! wherefore art thou Romeo?
Or shall I come to you at evening mass?
Or shall we on without apology?
Or shut me nightly in a charnel-house,
Or those eyes shut that make thee answer I.
Or to dispraise my lord with that same tongue
Or walk in thievish ways; or bid me lurk
 Or, wanting that, with tears distill'd by moans:
O serpent heart, hid with a flowering face!
O, she doth teach the torches to burn bright!
O, she is lame! love's heralds should be thoughts,
O, she knew well
O, she says nothing, sir, but weeps and weeps;
O, shut the door! and when thou hast done so,
O single-soled jest, solely singular for the singleness!
O son, the night before thy wedding day
O, speak again, bright angel! for thou art
O, swear not by the moon, the inconstant moon,
O, sweet my mother, cast me not away!
O, teach me how I should forget to think.
O that I were a glove upon that hand,
O, that she knew she were! —
O, then, dear saint, let lips do what hands do;
O, then, I see Queen Mab hath been with you.
O, then I see that madmen have no ears.
other reason but because thou hast hazel eyes; — what eye but such
O, think'st thou we shall ever meet again?
O, this same thought did but forerun my need;
O, thou art deceived; I would have made it short: for I was
O thou untaught! what manners is in this,
O, thou wilt speak again of banishment.
O Tybalt, Tybalt, the best friend I had!
Our bridal flowers serve for a buried corse,
Our instruments to melancholy bells;
Our Romeo hath not been in bed to-night.
Our solemn hymns to sullen dirges change;
Our wedding cheer to a sad burial feast;
Out, —
Out of her favour where I am in love.
Out on her, hilding!
out with a tailor for wearing his new doublet before Easter? with
Out, you green-sickness carrion! out, you baggage!
O, well-a-day that ever I was born! —
O, what a beast was I to chide at him!
O, what more favour can I do to thee
O, where is Romeo? — saw you him to-day? —
O, wilt thou leave me so unsatisfied?
O woeful day! O woeful day!
O woeful sympathy!
O woe! O woeful, woeful, woeful day!
 O woe! thy canopy is dust and stones!
O woful time!
Page.
Page.
Page.
Page to Paris; another Page.
Pale, pale as ashes, all bedaub'd in blood,
Pardon, good Mercutio, my business was great; and in such a
Paris.
Paris.
Paris.
Paris.
Paris.
Paris.
Paris.
Paris.
Paris.
Paris.
Paris.
Paris.
Paris.
Paris.
Paris.
Paris.
Paris.
Paris.
Paris.
Paris.
Paris.
Paris.
Paris.
Paris, a young Nobleman, kinsman to the Prince.
Part, fools! put up your swords; you know not what you do.
Patience perforce with wilful choler meeting
Peace, ho, for shame! confusion's cure lives not
Peace, I have done. God mark thee to his grace!
Peace, peace, Mercutio, peace,
Peace, you mumbling fool!
Peer'd forth the golden window of the east,
Perchance she cannot meet him: that's not so. —
Perhaps you have learned it without book:
PERSONS REPRESENTED
Peter.
Peter!
Peter.
Peter.
Peter.
Peter.
Peter.
Peter.
Peter.
Peter.
Peter.
Peter.
Peter.
Peter. I saw no man use you at his pleasure; if I had, my weapon
Peter, Servant to Juliet's Nurse.
Peter, stay at the gate.
Peter, take my fan, and go before.
Piteous predicament!
Pitiful sight! here lies the county slain; —
Play'd for a pair of stainless maidenhoods:
Poison hath residence, and medicine power:
Poison, I see, hath been his timeless end: —
Poor living corse, clos'd in a dead man's tomb!
Poor sacrifices of our enmity!
Poor soul, thy face is much abus'd with tears.
Pray you put up your dagger, and put out your wit.
Prepare her, wife, against this wedding-day. —
prettiest sententious of it, of you and rosemary, that it would
Pretty too! — What say you, James Soundpost?
Pretty! — What say you, Hugh Rebeck?
Prick'd from the lazy finger of a maid:
Prick love for pricking, and you beat love down. —
prick-song — keeps time, distance, and proportion; rests me his
Prince.
Prince.
Prince.
Prince.
Prince.
Prince.
Prince.
Prince.
Prince.
Prince.
Prince.
Prince.
Prince.
Prince.
Prince.
Prince.
Prodigious birth of love it is to me,
Profaners of this neighbour-stained steel, —
Proportion'd as one's heart would wish a man, —
Proud, — and, I thank you, — and I thank you not; —
Proud can I never be of what I hate;
Pursu'd my humour, not pursuing his,
Put not another sin upon my head
Put this in any liquid thing you will,
quarrels as an egg is full of meat; and yet thy head hath been
Quarrel, sir! no, sir.
quivers. Scurvy knave! — Pray you, sir, a word: and, as I told
Raise up the Montagues, — some others search: —
Rather than Paris: — these are news indeed!
Read o'er the volume of young Paris' face,
Ready to go, but never to return: —
Rebellious subjects, enemies to peace,
Receive in either by this dear encounter.
[Re-enter Benvolio.]
[Re-enter Juliet, above.]
[Re-enter Nurse.]
[Re-enter others of the Watch with Friar Lawrence.]
[Re-enter some of the Watch with Balthasar.]
remain, after the wearing, sole singular.
Remembering how I love thy company.
Remnants of packthread, and old cakes of roses,
Retain that dear perfection which he owes
rich Capulet; and if you be not of the house of Montagues,
[Retires.]
[Re-enter Tybalt.]
[Retires.]
[Retirong slowly.]
Retorts it: Romeo he cries aloud,
Return'd my letter back. Then all alone
Revive, look up, or I will die with thee! —
Revolts from true birth, stumbling on abuse:
Riddling confession finds but riddling shrift.
Right glad I am he was not at this fray.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo?
Romeo.
[Retires.]
Right.
Romeo!
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo.
Romeo! [Advances.]
Romeo, away, be gone!
Romeo can,
Romeo, come forth; come forth, thou fearful man.
Romeo, good night. — I'll to my truckle-bed;
Romeo! humours! madman! passion! lover!
Romeo, I come! this do I drink to thee.
'Romeo is banished' — to speak that word
Romeo is coming.
Romeo! my cousin Romeo!
Romeo! O, pale! — Who else? what, Paris too?
Romeo's a dishclout to him; an eagle, madam,
Romeo shall thank thee, daughter, for us both.
Romeo slew him; he slew Mercutio:
Romeo slew Tybalt, Romeo must not live.
Romeo, Son to Montague.
Romeo that kill'd him, he is banished.
Romeo, that spoke him fair, bid him bethink
Romeo, the love I bear thee can afford
Romeo, there dead, was husband to that Juliet;
Romeo will answer it.
Romeo, will you come to your father's? we'll to dinner thither.
Room in Capulet's House.
Run to my study. — By-and-by! — God's will!
Said he not so? or did I dream it so?
Sailing in this salt flood; the winds, thy sighs;
Saint Francis be my speed! how oft to-night
Saints do not move, though grant for prayers' sake.
Sampson.
Sampson.
Sampson.
Sampson.
Sampson.
Sampson.
Sampson.
Sampson.
Sampson.
Sampson.
Sampson.
Sampson.
Sampson.
Sampson.
Sampson.
Sampson.
Sampson.
Sampson.
Sampson.
Sampson.
Sampson, Servant to Capulet.
sauce.
Say better; here comes one of my master's kinsmen.
Say either, and I'll stay the circumstance:
Scene 1
Scene 5
Scene 3
Scene 3
Scene 5
Scene 2
Scene 3
Scene 1
Scene 5
Scene 5
Scene 4
Scene 1
Scene 2
Scene 2
Scene 2
Scene 2
Scene 4
Scene 4
Scene 1
Scene 6
Scene 1
Scene 3
Scene 3
Seal'd up the doors, and would not let us forth;
Scaring the ladies like a crow-keeper;
Scene 4
SCENE. — During the greater part of the Play in Verona; once, in the Fifth Act, at Mantua.
Seal up the mouth of outrage for a while,
Search, seek, and know how this foul murder comes.
See how she leans her cheek upon her hand!
Seeking out Romeo, that did spit his body
See thou deliver it to my lord and father.
See what a scourge is laid upon your hate,
See, where he comes: so please you step aside;
See where she comes from shrift with merry look.
Send for the county; go tell him of this:
sent to find those persons whose names are here writ,
1 Servant.
2 Servant.
Servant.
2 Servant.
Servant.
Servant.
2 Servant.
Servant.
Servant.
Servant.
1 Servant.
Servant.
Servant.
2 Servant.
2 Servant.
1 Servant.
Servant.
1 Servant.
2 Servant.
Servant.Find them out whose names are written here!
Shake, quoth the dove-house: 'twas no need, I trow,
Shall be the label to another deed,
Shall bitterly begin his fearful date
shall find me a grave man. I am peppered, I warrant, for this
Shall give him such an unaccustom'd dram
Shall happily make thee there a joyful bride.
Shall have the chinks.
Shall I be married, then, to-morrow morning? —
Shall I not then be stifled in the vault,
Shall I send to thee?
Shall I speak ill of him that is my husband?
Shall keep his native progress, but surcease:
Shall play the empire; arbitrating that
Shall Romeo bear thee hence to Mantua.
Shall Romeo by my letters know our drift;
Shall, stiff and stark and cold, appear like death:
Shalt with him hence.
Shame come to Romeo!
Sharp misery had worn him to the bones;
She could have run and waddled all about;
She'd be as swift in motion as a ball;
She hath, and in that sparing makes huge waste;
She hath forsworn to love; and in that vow
She hath not seen the change of fourteen years;
She is not fourteen. How long is it now
She is the fairies' midwife; and she comes
She is the hopeful lady of my earth:
She is too fair, too wise; wisely too fair,
She's dead, deceas'd, she's dead; alack the day!
She shall be married to this noble earl. —
She's not fourteen.
She's not well married that lives married long:
She speaks: —
She speaks, yet she says nothing: what of that?
She wakes; and I entreated her come forth
She was too good for me: — but, as I said,
She will beshrew me much that Romeo
She will indite him to some supper.
She will not stay the siege of loving terms
Shot from the deadly level of a gun,
Should be so tyrannous and rough in proof!
Should in the farthest east begin to draw
should quickly have been out, I warrant you: I dare draw as soon
Should, without eyes, see pathways to his will! —
Show a fair presence and put off these frowns,
Show me a mistress that is passing fair,
Shuts up his windows, locks fair daylight out
Shut up in prison, kept without my food,
'Signior Martino and his wife and daughters;
Signior Romeo, bon jour! there's a French salutation to your
Since arm from arm that voice doth us affray,
Since birth and heaven and earth, all three do meet
Since this same wayward girl is so reclaim'd.
Since you did leave it for my office, sir.
Sin from my lips? O trespass sweetly urg'd!
[Sings.]
Sir, go you in, — and, madam, go with him; —
Sir Paris, I will make a desperate tender
 — Sirrah, fetch drier logs:
Sirrah, go hire me twenty cunning cooks.
Sirrah, what made your master in this place?
Sitting in the sun under the dove-house wall;
Sleep dwell upon thine eyes, peace in thy breast! —
Sleep for a week; for the next night, I warrant,
[Snatching Romeo's dagger.]
So early waking, — what with loathsome smells,
So early walking did I see your son:
So fairly bound? O, that deceit should dwell
So far from sounding and discovery,
So fearful were they of infection.
Soft! I will go along:
Soft! take me with you, take me with you, wife.
Sojourn in Mantua; I'll find out your man,
Sole monarch of the universal earth.
So loving-jealous of his liberty.
So many guests invite as here are writ. —
So many thousand times? — Go, counsellor;
Some aqua-vitae, ho! — my lord! my lady!
Some comfort, nurse.
Some consequence, yet hanging in the stars,
Some five-and-twenty years; and then we mask'd.
Some Juliet, and some Paris; and all run,
Some misadventure.
Some say the lark and loathed toad change eyes;
Some say the lark makes sweet division;
 Some shall be pardon'd, and some punished;
something stale and hoar ere it be spent.
Sometime she driveth o'er a soldier's neck,
Sometime she gallops o'er a courtier's nose,
Some twenty of them fought in this black strife,
Some word there was, worser than Tybalt's death,
Soon sleep in quiet. O, how my heart abhors
So please you, let me now be left alone,
So Romeo would, were he not Romeo call'd,
So shall no foot upon the churchyard tread, —
So shall you feel the loss, but not the friend
So shall you share all that he doth possess,
So shalt thou show me friendship. — Take thou that:
So shows a snowy dove trooping with crows
So smile the heavens upon this holy act
So soon forsaken? young men's love, then, lies
So soon to bid good morrow to thy bed:
So stakes me to the ground I cannot move.
So stumblest on my counsel?
So that my speed to Mantua there was stay'd.
So thou wilt woo: but else, not for the world.
So thrive my soul, —
soul, had as lief see a toad, a very toad, as see him. I anger
Sovereign, here lies the County Paris slain;
So will ye, I am sure, that you love me.
So worthy a gentleman to be her bridegroom?
Spakest thou of Juliet? how is it with her?
Spare not for cost.
Speak briefly, can you like of Paris' love?
Speak but one rhyme, and I am satisfied;
Speakest thou this from thy heart?
Speak, nephew, were you by when it began?
Speak not, reply not, do not answer me;
Speak to my gossip Venus one fair word,
Spread thy close curtain, love-performing night!
Stand not amaz'd. The prince will doom thee death
Stands tiptoe on the misty mountain tops.
Stand up, stand up; stand, an you be a man:
Stay but a little, I will come again.
Stay, fellow; I can read. [Reads.]
Staying for thine to keep him company.
Stay not, be gone; — live, and hereafter say,
Stay not to question, for the watch is coming.
Stay then; I'll go alone: — fear comes upon me;
Still blush, as thinking their own kisses sin;
Still-waking sleep, that is not what it is! —
Stop there, stop there.
Stop thy unhallow'd toil, vile Montague!
Straining harsh discords and unpleasing sharps.
Strange dream, that gives a dead man leave to think! —
Strike, drum.
Stuff'd, as they say, with honourable parts,
Subtly hath minister'd to have me dead,
Such as I love; and you among the store,
Such as would please; — 'tis gone, 'tis gone, 'tis gone:
Such comfort as do lusty young men feel
Such mortal drugs I have; but Mantua's law
Supper is done, and we shall come too late.
Sups the fair Rosaline whom thou so lov'st;
Susan and she, — God rest all Christian souls! —
Suspecting that we both were in a house
Sweet flower, with flowers thy bridal bed I strew:
Sweet, so would I:
Sweet, sweet, sweet nurse, tell me, what says my love?
Swits and spurs, swits and spurs; or I'll cry a match.
Take all myself.
Take heed, take heed, for such die miserable.
Take him and cut him out in little stars,
take it in what sense thou wilt.
take it, is a gentlemanlike offer.
Take our good meaning, for our judgment sits
Take thou some new infection to thy eye,
Take thou this vial, being then in bed,
Take up those cords. Poor ropes, you are beguil'd,
Taking the measure of an unmade grave.
Taking thy part, hath brush'd aside the law,
Talk not to me, for I'll not speak a word;
Tell me in sadness who is that you love?
Tell me not, friar, that thou hear'st of this,
 Tempering extremities with extreme sweet.
Than death prorogued, wanting of thy love.
Than empty tigers or the roaring sea.
Thank me no thankings, nor proud me no prouds,
Than the death-darting eye of cockatrice:
Than these poor compounds that thou mayst not sell:
Than this of Juliet and her Romeo.
Than those that have more cunning to be strange.
Than thou went'st forth in lamentation. —
Than twenty of their swords: look thou but sweet,
Than with that hand that cut thy youth in twain
Than your consent gives strength to make it fly.
That after-hours with sorrow chide us not!
That all the world will be in love with night,
That almost freezes up the heat of life:
That 'banished,' that one word 'banished,'
That birds would sing and think it were not night. —
That book in many's eyes doth share the glory,
That calls our person from our morning's rest?
That cop'st with death himself to scape from it;
That dreamers often lie.
That ever, ever, I did yet behold!
That ever I should live to see thee dead!
That fair for which love groan'd for, and would die,
That gallant spirit hath aspir'd the clouds,
That God had lent us but this only child;
That heaven finds means to kill your joys with love!
That he dares ne'er come back to challenge you;
That he shall soon keep Tybalt company:
That he should hither come as this dire night,
That idles in the wanton summer air
That I have worn a visard; and could tell
That I might touch that cheek!
That I must love a loathed enemy.
That in gold clasps locks in the golden story;
That in thy likeness thou appear to us!
That I reviv'd, and was an emperor.
That is because the traitor murderer lives.
That I shall say good night till it be morrow.
That is no slander, sir, which is a truth;
That is renown'd for faith? Be fickle, fortune;
That I will show you shining at this feast,
That I yet know not?
That last is true; the sweeter rest was mine.
That late thou gavest me; for Mercutio's soul
That lets it hop a little from her hand,
That living mortals, hearing them, run mad; —
That may be must be, love, on Thursday next.
That may be, sir, when I may be a wife.
That may convey my greetings, love, to thee.
That monthly changes in her circled orb,
That most are busied when they're most alone, —
That murder'd me: I would forget it fain;
That murder'd my love's cousin, — with which grief,
that name, for fault of a worse.
That one short minute gives me in her sight:
That pierc'd the fearful hollow of thine ear;
That plats the manes of horses in the night;
That presses them, and learns them first to bear,
That quench the fire of your pernicious rage
That Romeo bid thee fetch?
That Romeo should, upon receipt thereof,
That rude eyes may wink, and Romeo
That's a certain text.
That same villain Romeo.
That's as much as to say, such a case as yours constrains a
That's by me wounded. Both our remedies
That sees into the bottom of my grief?
That shall she, marry; I remember it well.
That she do give her sorrow so much sway;
That shows thee a weak slave; for the weakest goes to the
That slew thy kinsman, brave Mercutio.
That's my good son: but where hast thou been then?
That the life-weary taker mall fall dead;
That thou consent to marry us to-day.
That thou expect'st not, nor I look'd not for.
That thou hast done me; therefore turn and draw.
That thou her maid art far more fair than she:
That tips with silver all these fruit-tree tops, —
That unsubstantial death is amorous;
That villain cousin would have kill'd my husband:
That warns my old age to a sepulchre.
That we have had no time to move our daughter:
That we may call it early by and by. —
That were some spite: my invocation
That westward rooteth from the city's side, —
That, when she dies, with beauty dies her store.
That while Verona by that name is known,
That you are now a maid. Thus, then, in brief; —
That you run mad, seeing that she is well:
That you shall all repent the loss of mine:
That you shall rest but little. — God forgive me!
The ape is dead, and I must conjure him. —
the argument no longer.
The boy gives warning something doth approach.
The brightness of her cheek would shame those stars,
The citizens are up, and Tybalt slain. —
The clock struck nine when I did send the nurse;
The collars, of the moonshine's watery beams;
The County Paris, at St. Peter's Church,
The County Paris hath set up his rest
The county will be here with music straight,
The cover, of the wings of grasshoppers;
The curfew bell hath rung, 'tis three o'clock: —
The dashing rocks thy sea-sick weary bark!
The date is out of such prolixity:
The day is broke; be wary, look about.
The day is hot, the Capulets abroad,
The day to cheer and night's dank dew to dry,
The doors of breath, seal with a righteous kiss
thee, —
The earth hath swallowed all my hopes but she, —
The earth, that's nature's mother, is her tomb;
Thee here in dark to be his paramour?
The exchange of thy love's faithful vow for mine.
The excuse that thou dost make in this delay
The fearful passage of their death-mark'd love,
the fee simple of my life for an hour and a quarter.
The fee simple! O simple!
The fiery Tybalt, with his sword prepar'd;
The fish lives in the sea; and 'tis much pride
The form of death: meantime I writ to Romeo
The gallant, young, and noble gentleman,
The game was ne'er so fair, and I am done.
The grey-ey'd morn smiles on the frowning night,
The ground is bloody; search about the churchyard:
The hateful mansion.
The heads of the maids?
The heavens do lower upon you for some ill;
The horrible conceit of death and night,
Their course of love, the tidings of her death:
The law, that threaten'd death, becomes thy friend,
The letter was not nice, but full of charge
The life of Tybalt.
The measure done, I'll watch her place of stand
The more I have, for both are infinite.
The most you sought was her promotion;
Then, — as the manner of our country is, —
Then be not poor, but break it and take this.
Then, dreadful trumpet, sound the general doom!
Then dreams he of another benefice:
Then gave I her, so tutored by my art,
Then have at you with my wit! I will dry-beat you with an
Then have my lips the sin that they have took.
Then hie you hence to Friar Lawrence' cell;
Then is it likely thou wilt undertake
Then love-devouring death do what he dare, —
Then mightst thou speak, then mightst thou tear thy hair,
Then move not while my prayer's effect I take.
'Then music with her silver sound
 Then music with her silver sound' —
The noble Paris and true Romeo dead.
Then plainly know my heart's dear love is set
Then say at once what thou dost know in this.
Then she hath sworn that she will still live chaste?
Then she is well, and nothing can be ill:
Then, since the case so stands as now it doth,
Then weep no more. I'll send to one in Mantua, —
Then will I give you the serving-creature.
Then will I lay the serving-creature's dagger on your pate.
Then, window, let day in, and let life out.
The obsequies that I for thee will keep,
The only son of your great enemy.
The orchard walls are high and hard to climb;
The other did not so.
[The Page whistles.]
The people in the street cry Romeo,
The pox of such antic, lisping, affecting fantasticoes; these
The precious treasure of his eyesight lost:
The pretty wretch left crying, and said 'Ay:'
THE PROLOGUE
The quarrel is between our masters and us their men.
There art thou happy: Tybalt would kill thee,
Therefore be patient, take no note of him, —
Therefore do nimble-pinion'd doves draw love,
Therefore farewell; I see thou know'st me not.
Therefore have done: some grief shows much of love;
therefore he that cannot lick his fingers goes not with me.
therefore, if thou art moved, thou runn'st away.
Therefore love moderately: long love doth so;
Therefore, out of thy long-experienc'd time,
Therefore stay yet, thou need'st not to be gone.
Therefore thy earliness doth me assure
Therefore thy kinsmen are no let to me.
Therefore use none: let Romeo hence in haste,
Therefore we'll have some half a dozen friends,
there for the goose.
There is no end, no limit, measure, bound,
There is no world without Verona walls,
There is thy gold; worse poison to men's souls,
There lies that Tybalt.
There lies the man, slain by young Romeo,
There on the ground, with his own tears made drunk.
There shall no figure at such rate be set
There's no trust,
There stays a husband to make you a wife:
The roses in thy lips and cheeks shall fade
These dead men's tombs.
These griefs, these woes, these sorrows make me old.
These happy masks that kiss fair ladies' brows,
These times of woe afford no tune to woo. —
These violent delights have violent ends,
The shady curtains from Aurora's bed,
The slip, sir, the slip; can you not conceive?
The son and heir of old Tiberio.
The stony entrance of this sepulchre? —
 The sun for sorrow will not show his head.
The sun not yet thy sighs from heaven clears,
The tears have got small victory by that;
The time and my intents are savage-wild;
The traces, of the smallest spider's web;
The unlucky manage of this fatal brawl:
The unreasonable fury of a beast;
The valiant Paris seeks you for his love.
The vaulty heaven so high above our heads:
the very first house, — of the first and second cause: ah, the
The what?
The which, if you with patient ears attend,
The world affords no law to make thee rich;
The world is not thy friend, nor the world's law:
They are all forth: well, I will walk myself
They are but beggars that can count their worth;
[They fight.]
[They fight.]
[They fight.]
They say Jove laughs. O gentle Romeo,
They call for dates and quinces in the pastry.
[They fight.]
[They fight; Tybalt falls.]
They have made worms' meat of me:
They'll be in scarlet straight at any news.
They must take it in sense that feel it.
They pray, grant thou, lest faith turn to despair.
[They retire behind.]
Things for the cook, sir; but I know not what.
Things have fallen out, sir, so unluckily
Things that, to hear them told, have made me tremble;
Think true love acted simple modesty.
This afternoon;
This afternoon, sir? well, she shall be there.
This bud of love, by summer's ripening breath,
This but begins the woe others must end.
This, by his voice, should be a Montague. —
This cannot anger him: 'twould anger him
This dagger hath mista'en, — for, lo, his house
This day's black fate on more days doth depend;
This doth not so, for she divideth us:
This field-bed is too cold for me to sleep:
This gentleman, the prince's near ally,
 This holy shrine, the gentle fine is this, —
This is as't should be. — Let me see the county;
This is dear mercy, and thou see'st it not.
This is my daughter's jointure, for no more
This is not Romeo, he's some other where.
This is she, —
This is that banish'd haughty Montague
This is the hag, when maids lie on their backs,
This is the matter, — Nurse, give leave awhile,
This is the place; there, where the torch doth burn.
This is the truth, or let Benvolio die.
This is thy sheath [stabs herself]; there rest, and let me die.
This letter doth make good the friar's words,
This letter he early bid me give his father;
This love feel I, that feel no love in this.
This may flies do, when I from this must fly.
This neighbour air, and let rich music's tongue
This night I hold an old accustom'd feast,
This night you shall behold him at our feast;
This precious book of love, this unbound lover,
This same should be the voice of Friar John.
This shall determine that.
this that was so full of his ropery?
This torture should be roar'd in dismal hell.
This trick may chance to scathe you, — I know what:
This vault a feasting presence full of light.
This wind you talk of blows us from ourselves:
Thou and my bosom henceforth shall be twain. —
Thou and these woes were all for Rosaline;
Thou art like one of these fellows that, when he enters the
Thou art not conquer'd; beauty's ensign yet
Thou art thyself, though not a Montague.
Thou art uprous'd with some distemperature;
Thou canst not speak of that thou dost not feel:
Thou chidd'st me oft for loving Rosaline.
Thou counterfeit'st a bark, a sea, a wind:
Thou cutt'st my head off with a golden axe,
Thou desirest me to stop in my tale against the hair.
Thou desperate pilot, now at once run on
Thou detestable maw, thou womb of death,
thou fishified! — Now is he for the numbers that Petrarch flowed
Thou fond mad man, hear me speak a little, —
Though heaven cannot. — O Romeo, Romeo! —
Though news be sad, yet tell them merrily;
thou hadst been poor-John. — Draw thy tool;
Thou hast amaz'd me: by my holy order,
thou hast more of the wild-goose in one of thy wits than, I am
Thou hast most kindly hit it.
Thou hast the strength of will to slay thyself,
Thou knowest my daughter's of a pretty age.
Thou knowest the mask of night is on my face;
Thou know'st my lodging: get me ink and paper,
thou loves me, let the porter let in Susan Grindstone and Nell. —
Thou mayst prove false; at lovers' perjuries,
Thou pout'st upon thy fortune and thy love: —
Thou shalt be borne to that same ancient vault
Thou shalt be logger-head. — Good faith, 'tis day.
Thou shalt continue two-and-forty hours,
Thou shalt not stir one foot to seek a foe.
Thou sober-suited matron, all in black,
thou sociable, now art thou Romeo; not art thou what thou art, by
Thou talk'st of nothing.
Thou villain Capulet! — Hold me not, let me go.
Thou wast never with me for anything when thou wast not
Thou wast the prettiest babe that e'er I nurs'd:
Thou wilt be taken. — Stay awhile; — Stand up;
Thou wilt fall backward when thou com'st to age;
Thou wilt fall backward when thou hast more wit;
Thou wouldst else have made thy tale large.
Thou, wretched boy, that didst consort him here,
Thou wrong'st it more than tears with that report.
Three civil brawls, bred of an airy word,
Three Musicians.
Three words, dear Romeo, and good night indeed.
Through fair Verona; find those persons out
Through lovers' brains, and then they dream of love;
[Throws herself on the bed.]
[Throws them down.]
Throw your mistemper'd weapons to the ground
thumb, sir.
Thursday is near; lay hand on heart, advise:
Thursday let it be; — a Thursday, tell her,
Thus from my lips, by thine my sin is purg'd.
Thus I enforce thy rotten jaws to open,
Thy beauty hath made me effeminate
Thy dear love sworn, but hollow perjury,
thy dog that hath lain asleep in the sun. Didst thou not fall
Thy drugs are quick. — Thus with a kiss I die.
Thy face is mine, and thou hast slander'd it.
Thy father, or thy mother, nay, or both,
Thy fault our law calls death; but the kind prince,
Thy husband in thy bosom there lies dead;
Thy lips are warm!
Thy love did read by rote, that could not spell.
Thy noble shape is but a form of wax,
Thy old groans ring yet in mine ancient ears;
thy pump;that, when the single sole of it is worn, the jest may
Thy purpose marriage, send me word to-morrow,
Thy tears are womanish; thy wild acts denote
Thy tempest-tossed body. — How now, wife!
Thy wit is a very bitter sweeting; it is a most sharp
Thy wit, that ornament to shape and love,
Tickle the senseless rushes with their heels;
Tickling a parson's nose as 'a lies asleep,
Ties up my tongue and will not let me speak.
Till holy church incorporate two in one.
Till I conveniently could send to Romeo:
Till she had laid it, and conjur'd it down;
Till then, adieu; and keep this holy kiss.
Till thou shalt know the reason of my love:
Till we can clear these ambiguities,
Time out o' mind the fairies' coachmakers.
'Tis all one, I will show myself a tyrant:
'Tis almost morning; I would have thee gone:
'Tis but the pale reflex of Cynthia's brow;
'Tis but thy name that is my enemy; —
'Tis he, that villain, Romeo.
'Tis more, 'tis more: his son is elder, sir;
'Tis no less, I tell ye; for the bawdy hand of the dial is
'Tis now near night.
'Tis since the earthquake now eleven years;
'Tis since the nuptial of Lucentio,
'Tis the way
'Tis torture, and not mercy: heaven is here,
'Tis very late; she'll not come down to-night:
'Tis well thou art not fish; if thou hadst,
To an impatient child that hath new robes,
To answer, 'I'll not wed, — I cannot love,
To answer that, I should confess to you.
To bear a poison, I would temper it,
To beautify him, only lacks a cover:
To be a virtuous and well-govern'd youth:
To be consorted with the humorous night:
To beg your pardon: — pardon, I beseech you!
To be to thee this night a torch-bearer
To bid me trudge.
To blaze your marriage, reconcile your friends,
To blazon it, then sweeten with thy breath
 To breathe such vows as lovers us'd to swear;
To call hers, exquisite, in question more:
To catch my death with jauncing up and down!
To cease thy suit and leave me to my grief:
To comfort thee, though thou art banished.
To comfort you: I wot well where he is.
To County Paris: — then comes she to me,
To County Paris, to prepare him up
To cross my obsequies and true love's rite?
To enter in the thoughts of desperate men!
To fetch a ladder, by the which your love
To fleer and scorn at our solemnity?
To follow this fair corse unto her grave:
Together with the terror of the place, —
To go with Paris to Saint Peter's Church,
To grubs and eyeless skulls? as I discern,
To have her match'd, and having now provided
To hear good counsel: O, what learning is! —
To hear him nam'd, — and cannot come to him, —
To hear true shrift. — Come, madam, let's away,
To help me after? — I will kiss thy lips;
To help me sort such needful ornaments
To help to take her from her borrow'd grave,
[To Juliet.] If I profane with my unworthiest hand
To Juliet's grave; for there must I use thee.
To know our farther pleasure in this case,
To Lammas-tide?
To lay one in, another out to have.
To lie discolour'd by this place of peace?
To live an unstain'd wife to my sweet love.
To lure this tassel-gentle back again!
To make confession and to be absolv'd.
To make me die with a restorative.
To mangle me with that word banishment?
To Mantua, with my letters to thy lord.
To marry Paris: Wednesday is to-morrow;
 To meet her new beloved anywhere:
To merit bliss by making me despair:
To-morrow night look that thou lie alone,
To-morrow will I send.
To move is to stir; and to be valiant is to stand:
To move the heavens to smile upon my state,
To murder, murder our solemnity? —
To-night she's mew'd up to her heaviness.
Too early seen unknown, and known too late!
Too familiar
Too flattering-sweet to be substantial.
Too great oppression for a tender thing.
To old Free-town, our common judgment-place. —
Too like the lightning, which doth cease to be
Too rude, too boisterous; and it pricks like thorn.
Too swift arrives as tardy as too slow.
To paly ashes; thy eyes' windows fall,
To press before thy father to a grave?
To prison, eyes; ne'er look on liberty!
To raise a spirit in his mistress' circle,
Torch-bearers, and others.]
To rid her from this second marriage,
Torments him so that he will sure run mad.
To rouse thee from thy bed, there art thou dead:
To say to me that thou art out of breath?
To scorn at our solemnity this night.
To season love, that of it doth not taste!
To see it tetchy, and fall out with the dug!
To seek him here that means not to be found.
To see now how a jest shall come about!
To see thy son and heir more early down.
 To smooth that rough touch with a tender kiss.
To soar with his light feathers; and so bound,
To stop the inundation of her tears;
To strike him dead I hold it not a sin.
To such a greeting. Villain am I none;
To sunder his that was thine enemy?
To supper; to our house.
To the dead bodies: I will apprehend him. —
to the plate: — good thou, save me a piece of marchpane; and as
To think it should leave crying, and say 'Ay:'
To think it was so? — O, give me thy hand,
To this same place, to this same monument.
To turn your households' rancour to pure love.
To twinkle in their spheres till they return.
Towards him I made; but he was ware of me,
Towards Phoebus' lodging; such a waggoner
To whose foul mouth no healthsome air breathes in,
To wield old partisans, in hands as old,
town, one Paris, that would fain lay knife aboard; but she, good
To wreak the love I bore my cousin Tybalt
To you and your behests; and am enjoin'd
 Transparent heretics, be burnt for liars!
True; and therefore women, being the weaker vessels,
True, I talk of dreams,
Trust to't, bethink you, I'll not be forsworn.
Turn back, dull earth, and find thy centre out.
Turn from their office to black funeral:
Turn giddy, and be holp by backward turning;
Turning his face to the dew-dropping south.
Turn thee Benvolio, look upon thy death.
Turn to another, this shall slay them both:
Tush, I will stir about,
Tush, thou art deceiv'd:
Tut, dun's the mouse, the constable's own word:
Tut! I have lost myself; I am not here:
Tut, man, one fire burns out another's burning,
Tut, you saw her fair, none else being by,
'Twixt my extremes and me this bloody knife
Two households, both alike in dignity,
Two may keep counsel, putting one away?
Two of the fairest stars in all the heaven,
Two such opposed kings encamp them still
Two, two; a shirt and a smock.
Tybalt.
Tybalt.
Tybalt.
Tybalt.
Tybalt.
Tybalt.
Tybalt.
Tybalt.
Tybalt.
Tybalt.
Tybalt.
Tybalt.
Tybalt.
Tybalt.
Tybalt.
Tybalt.
Tybalt.
Tybalt, here slain, whom Romeo's hand did slay;
'Tybalt is dead, and Romeo banished.'
Tybalt is gone, and Romeo banished;
Tybalt, liest thou there in thy bloody sheet?
Tybalt, — Mercutio, — the prince expressly hath
Tybalt, my cousin! O my brother's child! —
Tybalt, Nephew to Lady Capulet.
Tybalt, that murderer, which way ran he?
Tybalt, the kinsman to old Capulet,
Tybalt, the reason that I have to love thee
Tybalt, you rat-catcher, will you walk?
Uncle, this is a Montague, our foe;
Uncomfortable time, why cam'st thou now
Under love's heavy burden do I sink.
Under yond yew tree lay thee all along,
Uneven is the course; I like it not.
Unfold the imagin'd happiness that both
Unhappy fortune! by my brotherhood,
Unless good counsel may the cause remove.
Unless philosophy can make a Juliet,
Unless that husband send it me from heaven
Unless thou tell me how I may prevent it:
Unplagu'd with corns will have a bout with you. —
Unseemly woman in a seeming man!
Unto my cell.
Unto the rigour of severest law.
Unto the white-upturned wondering eyes
Unwieldy, slow, heavy and pale as lead. —
Unworthy as she is, that we have wrought
Up.
Upon a rapier's point: — stay, Tybalt, stay! —
Upon his body that hath slaughter'd him!
Upon his brow shame is asham'd to sit;
Upon so soft a subject as myself! —
Upon the sweetest flower of all the field.
Up, sir, go with me;
Up to the ears. — Come, we burn daylight, ho.
Utter your gravity o'er a gossip's bowl,
Valentine; mine uncle Capulet, his wife, and
Valentio and his cousin Tybalt; Lucio and the
Verona's summer hath not such a flower.
very pin of his heart cleft with the blind bow-boy's butt-shaft:
Vile earth, to earth resign; end motion here;
Villain and he be many miles asunder. —
villain, that fights by the book of arithmetic! — Why the devil
Virtue itself turns vice, being misapplied;
wall.
Warm and new kill'd.
warrant him as gentle as a lamb. — Go thy ways, wench; serve God.-
Was ever book containing such vile matter
Wash they his wounds with tears: mine shall be spent,
Was stay'd by accident; and yesternight
Was that my father that went hence so fast?
Was Tybalt's doomsday, whose untimely death
Was woe enough, if it had ended there:
1 Watch.
1 Watch.
3 Watch.
2 Watch.
1 Watch.
1 Watch.
1 Watch.
1 Watch.
We are undone, lady, we are undone! —
We cannot be here and there too. — Cheerly, boys;
We cannot without circumstance descry.
Weeping and wailing over Tybalt's corse:
We follow thee. [Exit Servant.] —
We have a trifling foolish banquet towards. —
Welcome from Mantua: what says Romeo?
Welcome, gentlemen! I have seen the day
Welcome, gentlemen! ladies that have their toes
Welcome then.
Well, be may chance to do some good on her:
Well, do not swear: although I joy in thee,
Well, get you gone: o' Thursday be it then. —
Well, girl, thou weep'st not so much for his death
We'll have no Cupid hoodwink'd with a scarf,
Well, in that hit you miss: she'll not be hit
Well, Juliet, I will lie with thee to-night.
We'll keep no great ado, — a friend or two;
We'll measure them a measure, and be gone.
Well, peace be with you, sir. — Here comes my man.
Well said: follow me this jest now till thou hast worn out
Well said, my hearts! — You are a princox; go:
Well, sir.
Well, sir; my mistress is the sweetest lady. — Lord, Lord!
Well, think of marriage now: younger than you,
Well, thou hast comforted me marvellous much.
Well, well, thou hast a careful father, child;
Well, what was yours?
Well, you have made a simple choice; you know not how to
We met, we woo'd, and made exchange of vow,
We must talk in secret: nurse, come back again;
wench's black eye; shot through the ear with a love song; the
Were in a mask?
were lustier than he is, and twenty such Jacks; and if I cannot,
Were of an age: well, Susan is with God;
Were thinly scatter'd, to make up a show.
Wert thou as young as I, Juliet thy love,
We see the ground whereon these woes do lie;
We shall be much unfurnish'd for this time. —
We shall be short in our provision:
We still have known thee for a holy man. —
We sucking on her natural bosom find;
We talk here in the public haunt of men:
We took this mattock and this spade from him
We waste our lights in vain, like lamps by day.
We will have vengeance for it, fear thou not:
We would as willingly give cure as know.
What?
What a pestilent knave is this same!
What are they, I beseech your ladyship?
What, are you busy, ho? need you my help?
What, art thou drawn among these heartless hinds?
What, art thou hurt?
What curious eye doth quote deformities?
What cursed foot wanders this way to-night,
What devil art thou, that dost torment me thus?
What doth her beauty serve but as a note
What, drawn, and talk of peace! I hate the word
What, dress'd! and in your clothes! and down again!
What early tongue so sweet saluteth me? —
Whate'er thou hear'st or seest, stand all aloof
What fear is this which startles in our ears?
What further woe conspires against mine age?
What, goodman boy! — I say he shall; — go to;
What hast thou found?
-What, have you dined at home?
What here shall miss, our toil shall strive to mend.
What, ho! apothecary!
What if her eyes were there, they in her head?
What if it be a poison, which the friar
What if this mixture do not work at all?
What I have spoke; but farewell compliment!
What is her burying gave, that is her womb:
What is her mother?
What is it else? a madness most discreet,
What, is my daughter gone to Friar Lawrence?
What is the matter?
What lady is that, which doth enrich the hand
What less than doomsday is the prince's doom?
What man art thou that, thus bescreen'd in night,
What, man! 'tis not so much, 'tis not so much:
What mean these masterless and gory swords
What misadventure is so early up,
What must be shall be.
What noise is here?
What noise is this? — Give me my long sword, ho!
What, not a word? — you take your pennyworths now;
What, rouse thee, man! thy Juliet is alive,
What said my man, when my betossed soul
What satisfaction canst thou have to-night?
What says he of our marriage? what of that?
What say'st thou? hast thou not a word of joy?
What say'st thou, my dear nurse?
What say you? can you love the gentleman?
What say you, Simon Catling?
What, shall I groan and tell thee?
What shall I swear by?
What, shall this speech be spoke for our excuse?
What's here? a cup, clos'd in my true love's hand?
What's he that follows there, that would not dance?
What's he that now is going out of door?
What should it be, that they so shriek abroad?
What simpleness is this. — I come, I come!
What's in a name? that which we call a rose
What's Montague? It is nor hand, nor foot,
What sorrow craves acquaintance at my hand,
What's there?
What's this? What's this?
What storm is this that blows so contrary?
What torch is yond that vainly lends his light
What unaccustom'd cause procures her hither?
What villain, madam?
What will you give us?
What wilt thou tell her, nurse? thou dost not mark me.
What, wilt thou wash him from his grave with tears?
What, with a torch! muffle me, night, awhile.
What wouldst thou have with me?
When but love's shadows are so rich in joy!
When good manners shall lie all in one or two men's
'When griping grief the heart doth wound,
When he bestrides the lazy-pacing clouds
when I have fought with the men I will be cruel with the maids,
When it did taste the wormwood on the nipple
 When it hoars ere it be spent.
When I, thy three-hours' wife, have mangled it? —
When King Cophetua lov'd the beggar-maid! —
When, presently, through all thy veins shall run
When the devout religion of mine eye
When theirs are dry, for Romeo's banishment.
When the sun sets, the air doth drizzle dew;
When thou didst bower the spirit of a fiend
when 'twas a little prating thing, — O, there's a nobleman in
When well apparell'd April on the heel
Where all the kindred of the Capulets lie.
Where and what time thou wilt perform the rite;
Where are the vile beginners of this fray?
Where be these enemies? — Capulet, — Montague, —
Where bloody Tybalt, yet but green in earth,
 Where civil blood makes civil hands unclean.
Where, for this many hundred years, the bones
Where I have learn'd me to repent the sin
Where I may read who pass'd that passing fair?
Where is my father and my mother, nurse?
Where is my lady's lord, where's Romeo?
Where is my mother? — why, she is within;
Where is my page? — go, villain, fetch a surgeon.
Where is she? and how doth she/ and what says
Where is the county's page that rais'd the watch? —
'Where is your mother?'
Where Juliet lives; and every cat, and dog,
Where, on a sudden, one hath wounded me
Where serpents are; chain me with roaring bears;
Where shall we dine? — O me! — What fray was here?
Where should she be? How oddly thou repliest!
Where's Potpan, that he helps not to take away?
Where's Romeo's man? what can he say in this?
Where that same banish'd runagate doth live, —
Where the devil should this Romeo be? —
Where the infectious pestilence did reign,
Where thou shalt live till we can find a time
Whereto I have invited many a guest,
Where, — underneath the grove of sycamore
Which, among view of many, mine, being one,
Which are the children of an idle brain,
Which, as he breath'd defiance to my ears,
Which, as they kiss, consume: the sweetest honey
Which but their children's end naught could remove,
Which craves as desperate an execution
Which heavy sorrow makes them apt unto.
Which is as thin of substance as the air,
Which is the god of my idolatry,
Which, like a usurer, abound'st in all,
 Which mannerly devotion shows in this;
Which modern lamentation might have mov'd?
Which oft the angry Mab with blisters plagues,
Which, once untangled, much misfortune bodes:
Which she hath prais'd him with above compare
Which should bedeck thy shape, thy love, thy wit:
Which ten times faster glide than the sun's beams,
Which the commission of thy years and art
Which the dark night hath so discovered.
Which thou wilt propagate, to have it prest
Which, too much minded by herself alone,
Which too untimely here did scorn the earth.
Which to the high top-gallant of my joy
Which way ran he that kill'd Mercutio?
Which, well thou know'st, is cross and full of sin.
Which with sweet water nightly I will dew;
Which you, mistaking, offer up to joy.
Which you weep for.
While we were interchanging thrusts and blows,
Whipp'd and tormented and — God-den, good fellow.
Whiter than new snow upon a raven's back. —
Whither?
Who, all as hot, turns deadly point to point,
Who bare my letter, then, to Romeo?
Who calls so loud?
Who, even in pure and vestal modesty,
Who ever would have thought it? — Romeo!
Who had but newly entertain'd revenge,
Who here hath lain this two days buried. —
Who is already sick and pale with grief,
Who is it?
Who is it that consorts, so late, the dead?
Who is't that calls? is it my lady mother?
Who knocks so hard? whence come you? what's your will?
Who, nothing hurt withal, hiss'd him in scorn:
Who now the price of his dear blood doth owe?
Who, — raging with thy tears and they with them, —
Whose house?
Whose misadventur'd piteous overthrows
Whose names are written there, [gives a paper] and to them say,
Whose sale is present death in Mantua,
Who set this ancient quarrel new abroach? —
Why art thou yet so fair? Shall I believe
Why dost thou stay?
Why follow'd not, when she said Tybalt's dead,
Why 'Heart's ease'?
Why, how now, Juliet?
Why, how now, kinsman! wherefore storm you so?
Why, I am glad on't; this is well, — stand up, —
Why I descend into this bed of death
Why, is not this better now than groaning for love? now art
Why, lamb! — why, lady! — fie, you slug-abed! —
Why, love, I say! — madam! sweetheart! — why, bride! —
Why, may one ask?
Why rail'st thou on thy birth, the heaven, and earth?
Why, Romeo, art thou mad?
Why should you fall into so deep an O?
why 'silver sound'? why 'music with her silver sound'? —
Why, such is love's transgression. —
Why, then is my pump well-flowered.
Why, then, O brawling love! O loving hate!
Why, uncle, 'tis a shame.
Why, what is Tybalt?
Wife, go you to her ere you go to bed;
Will I set up my everlasting rest;
will keep to myself: but first let me tell ye, if ye should lead
Will ne'er wear out the everlasting flint:
Will now deny to dance? she that makes dainty, she,
will speak more in a minute than he will stand to in a month.
Will they not hear? — What, ho! you men, you beasts,
Will watch thy waking, and that very night
Will you be ready? do you like this haste?
Will you go to them? I will bring you thither.
Will you speak well of him that kill'd your cousin?
Will you tell me that?
Wilt thou be gone? it is not yet near day:
Wilt thou not, Jule?' and, by my holidame,
Wilt thou not, Jule?' it stinted, and said 'Ay.'
Wilt thou provoke me? then have at thee, boy!
wilt tutor me from quarrelling!
wisely.
Wisely, and slow; they stumble that run fast.
With all the admired beauties of Verona.
with a man for coughing in the street, because he hath wakened
With baleful weeds and precious-juiced flowers.
With blood remov'd but little from her own?
With Cupid's arrow, — she hath Dian's wit;
With gentle breath, calm look, knees humbly bow'd, —
[Within.] Ho, daughter! are you up?
[Within.] Lead, boy: — which way?
[Within.] Let me come in, and you shall know my errand;
[Within.] Madam!
[Within.] Madam!
With instruments upon them fit to open
Within the infant rind of this small flower
Within this hour my man shall be with thee,
Within this three hours will fair Juliet wake:
Within thy help and holy physic lies;
With love's light wings did I o'erperch these walls;
With more of thine: this love that thou hast shown
With nimble soles; I have a soul of lead
With open outcry, toward our monument.
Without a sudden calm, will overset
Without his roe, like a dried herring. — O flesh, flesh, how art
Without that title: — Romeo, doff thy name;
With piercing steel at bold Mercutio's breast;
With purple fountains issuing from your veins, —
With reeky shanks and yellow chapless skulls;
With repetition of my Romeo's name.
With Romeo till I behold him — dead —
With Rosaline, my ghostly father? no;
 With speedy help doth lend redress.'
With tears augmenting the fresh morning's dew,
 With tender Juliet match'd, is now not fair.
With this night's revels; and expire the term
With thy black mantle; till strange love, grown bold,
With twenty hundred thousand times more joy
With Tybalt's slander, — Tybalt, that an hour
With worms that are thy chambermaids: O, here
Women may fall, when there's no strength in men.
world. — A plague o' both your houses! — Zounds, a dog, a rat, a
Would I were sleep and peace, so sweet to rest!
Would none but I might venge my cousin's death!
Would'st thou withdraw it? for what purpose, love?
Would through the airy region stream so bright
Yea, is the worst well? very well took, i' faith; wisely,
Yea, noise? — Then I'll be brief. — O happy dagger!
'Yea,' quoth he, 'dost thou fall upon thy face?
'Yea,' quoth my husband, 'fall'st upon thy face?
Ye say honestly: rest you merry!
Yes, better, sir.
Yes, madam; — yet I cannot choose but laugh,
Yet banished? Hang up philosophy!
Yet I should kill thee with much cherishing.
Yet let me weep for such a feeling loss.
Yet most suspected, as the time and place
Yet nature's tears are reason's merriment.
Yet put it out, for I would not be seen.
Yet tell me not, for I have heard it all.
Yond light is not daylight, I know it, I:
you.
You are a lover; borrow Cupid's wings,
You are a saucy boy. Is't so, indeed? —
You are looked for and called for, asked for
You are to blame, my lord, to rate her so.
You are too hot.
You are welcome, gentlemen! — Come, musicians, play.
You, Capulet, shall go along with me; —
You kiss by the book.
You lie.
You'll make a mutiny among my guests!
You'll not endure him! — God shall mend my soul,
You must contrary me! marry, 'tis time. —
you, my young lady bid me enquire you out; what she bade me say I
Young auburn Cupid, he that shot so trim
Younger than she are happy mothers made.
Young Romeo, is it?
Young son, it argues a distemper'd head
Your first is dead; or 'twere as good he were,
Your high displeasure. — All this, — uttered
Your lady mother is coming to your chamber:
Your lady's love against some other maid
Your lives shall pay the forfeit of the peace.
Your looks are pale and wild, and do import
Your love says, like an honest gentleman,
'Your love says, like an honest gentleman, —
Your mother.
Your part in her you could not keep from death;
Your plantain-leaf is excellent for that.
Your tributary drops belong to woe,
Your worship in that sense may call him man.
You say well.
You say you do not know the lady's mind:
You shall find me apt enough to that, sir, an you will give
You shall have none ill, sir; for I'll try if they can
You tallow-face!
You, to remove that siege of grief from her,
You will not then?
You will set cock-a-hoop! you'll be the man!
